---
title: "Demo for ABAP Keyword Documentation"
description: |
  n'! n'! Disclaimer:  n'! This class represents a demonstration program of the ABAP Keyword n'! Documentation, primarily intended to provide a better explanation n'! and visualization of syntax. It is not intended for production use n'! and may use demo artifacts that are not rel
library: "cloud"
libraryName: "ABAP Cloud"
category: "general"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_cp_index_htm/CLOUD/en-US/ABENASXML_FRAGMENTS_ABEXA.htm"
abapFile: "ABENASXML_FRAGMENTS_ABEXA.html"
keywords: ["do", "if", "case", "try", "catch", "method", "class", "data", "types", "ABENASXML", "FRAGMENTS", "ABEXA"]
---

This example demonstrates the mapping of XML fragments.

This example demonstrates the serialization and deserialization of XML fragments and their representation in asXML using the [identity transformation](ABENID_TRAFO_GLOSRY.html)\\ `ID`.

For information about serializations and deserializations of XML fragments using [Simple Transformations](ABENABAP_ST.html), see the executable example [ST, Mapping of XML Fragments](ABENST_XSDANY_ABEXA.html).

-   First, an XML fragment with the root element *X* is created in a variable `xstr` with the type `xstring` and the result is displayed.
-   The fragment is serialized from the variable `xstr` of type `xstring` to an element `ROOT` as the XML schema type `xsd:base64Binary` in accordance with the rules for the [mapping of elementary data types](ABENABAP_XSLT_ASXML_ELEMENTARY.html).
-   On the other hand, a serialization of the fragment from the variable `xsdstr` of type `XSDANY` adds the attribute `asx:root` with the content *X*, that is, the name of the root element of the XML fragment) to the element `ROOT` and represents the remaining content of the fragment in an unchanged way.
-   A further serialization of the fragment from the variable `xsdstr` produces the element *X*. This has the same name as the root element of the XML fragment and so the attribute is not added.
-   Any attempt to deserialize the fragment content to an ABAP variable of type `xstring` fails for both serialization results, since the attribute specified for `NODE` when mapping elementary data types is not supported or because no valid asXML format exists for the target variable.
-   Deserializations to variables of type `XSDANY` are possible in both cases, however, and create the original XML fragment again in the variable.
-   If a nonexistent element is addressed in deserializations, no deserialization is performed as usual.

\* Public class definition \\n"!

Demo for ABAP Keyword Documentation

\\ \\n"! \\n"!

**Disclaimer:**
\\ \\n"! This class represents a demonstration program of the ABAP Keyword \\n"! Documentation, primarily intended to provide a better explanation \\n"! and visualization of syntax. It is not intended for production use \\n"! and may use demo artifacts that are not released as APIs for use \\n"! in ABAP for Cloud Development.

\\ \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_asxml\_fragment DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n\\ \\n PRIVATE SECTION. \\n METHODS prepare\_fragment \\n RETURNING VALUE(xml) TYPE xstring. \\n METHODS serialize \\n IMPORTING source TYPE any \\n node TYPE string \\n trafo TYPE string \\n text TYPE string \\n RETURNING VALUE(result) TYPE xstring. \\n METHODS deserialize \\n IMPORTING source TYPE xstring \\n node TYPE string \\n trafo TYPE string \\n text TYPE string \\n EXPORTING result TYPE any. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_asxml\_fragment IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n DATA: xstr TYPE xstring, \\n xsdstr TYPE xsdany, \\n xmlstr1 TYPE xstring, \\n xmlstr2 TYPE xstring. \\n\\ \\n xstr = prepare\_fragment( ). \\n\\ \\n xmlstr1 = serialize( \\n source = xstr \\n node = 'ROOT' \\n trafo = 'ID' \\n text = 'XSLT-Serialization of XML-Fragment from XSTRING' ). \\n\\ \\n xsdstr = xstr. \\n\\ \\n xmlstr1 = serialize( \\n source = xsdstr \\n node = 'ROOT' \\n trafo = 'ID' \\n text = 'XSLT-Serialization of XML-Fragment from XSDANY' & \\n ' into node ROOT' ). \\n\\ \\n xmlstr2 = serialize( \\n source = xsdstr \\n node = 'X' \\n trafo = 'ID' \\n text = 'XSLT-Serialization of XML-Fragment from XSDANY' & \\n ' into node X' ). \\n\\ \\n\\ \\n deserialize( \\n EXPORTING \\n source = xmlstr1 \\n node = 'ROOT' \\n trafo = 'ID' \\n text = 'XSLT-Deserialization of XSLT-result with node ROOT' & \\n ' into XSTRING' \\n IMPORTING result = xstr ). \\n deserialize( \\n EXPORTING \\n source = xmlstr2 \\n node = 'X' \\n trafo = 'ID' \\n text = 'XSLT-Deserialization of XSLT-result with node X' & \\n ' into XSTRING' \\n IMPORTING result = xstr ). \\n\\ \\n deserialize( \\n EXPORTING \\n source = xmlstr1 \\n node = 'ROOT' \\n trafo = 'ID' \\n text = 'XSLT-Deserialization of XSLT-result with node ROOT' & \\n ' into XSDANY' \\n IMPORTING result = xsdstr ). \\n deserialize( \\n EXPORTING \\n source = xmlstr2 \\n node = 'X' \\n trafo = 'ID' \\n text = 'XSLT-Deserialization of XSLT-result with node X' & \\n ' into XSDANY' \\n IMPORTING result = xsdstr ). \\n\\ \\n deserialize( \\n EXPORTING \\n source = xmlstr1 \\n node = 'X' \\n trafo = 'ID' \\n text = 'XSLT-Deserialization of XSLT-result with node ROOT' & \\n ' into XSDANY using node X' \\n IMPORTING result = xsdstr ). \\n deserialize( \\n EXPORTING \\n source = xmlstr2 \\n node = 'ROOT' \\n trafo = 'ID' \\n text = 'XSLT-Deserialization of XSLT-result with node X' & \\n ' into XSDANY using node ROOT' \\n IMPORTING result = xsdstr ). \\n\\ \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD deserialize. \\n FINAL(result\_tab) = VALUE abap\_trans\_resbind\_tab( \\n ( name = node value = REF #( result ) ) ). \\n TRY. \\n out->begin\_section( text ). \\n CALL TRANSFORMATION (trafo) \\n SOURCE XML source \\n RESULT (result\_tab) \\n OPTIONS clear = 'all'. \\n IF result IS NOT INITIAL. \\n out->write\_xml( result ). \\n ELSE. \\n out->write\_text( 'Initial' ). \\n ENDIF. \\n CATCH cx\_transformation\_error. \\n out->write\_text( 'Error' ). \\n ENDTRY. \\n out->end\_section( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD prepare\_fragment. \\n out->begin\_section( \\n )->begin\_section( 'XML-Fragment' ). \\n xml = cl\_abap\_conv\_codepage=>create\_out( )->convert( \\n \`\` && \\n \`\` && \\n \`Text\` && \\n \`Text1\` && \\n \`Text1\` && \\n \`\` ). \\n out->write\_xml( xml \\n )->end\_section( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD serialize. \\n FINAL(source\_tab) = VALUE abap\_trans\_srcbind\_tab( \\n ( name = node value = REF #( source ) ) ). \\n TRY. \\n out->begin\_section( text ). \\n CALL TRANSFORMATION (trafo) \\n SOURCE (source\_tab) \\n RESULT XML result. \\n out->write\_xml( result ). \\n CATCH cx\_transformation\_error. \\n out->write\_text( 'Error' ). \\n ENDTRY. \\n out->end\_section( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. \* Public class definition \\n"!

Demo for ABAP Keyword Documentation

\\ \\n"! \\n"!

**Disclaimer:**
\\ \\n"! This class represents a demonstration program of the ABAP Keyword \\n"! Documentation, primarily intended to provide a better explanation \\n"! and visualization of syntax. It is not intended for production use \\n"! and may use demo artifacts that are not released as APIs for use \\n"! in ABAP for Cloud Development.

\\ \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_asxml\_fragment DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n\\ \\n PRIVATE SECTION. \\n METHODS prepare\_fragment \\n RETURNING VALUE(xml) TYPE xstring. \\n METHODS serialize \\n IMPORTING source TYPE any \\n node TYPE string \\n trafo TYPE string \\n text TYPE string \\n RETURNING VALUE(result) TYPE xstring. \\n METHODS deserialize \\n IMPORTING source TYPE xstring \\n node TYPE string \\n trafo TYPE string \\n text TYPE string \\n EXPORTING result TYPE any. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_asxml\_fragment IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n DATA: xstr TYPE xstring, \\n xsdstr TYPE xsdany, \\n xmlstr1 TYPE xstring, \\n xmlstr2 TYPE xstring. \\n\\ \\n xstr = prepare\_fragment( ). \\n\\ \\n xmlstr1 = serialize( \\n source = xstr \\n node = 'ROOT' \\n trafo = 'ID' \\n text = 'XSLT-Serialization of XML-Fragment from XSTRING' ). \\n\\ \\n xsdstr = xstr. \\n\\ \\n xmlstr1 = serialize( \\n source = xsdstr \\n node = 'ROOT' \\n trafo = 'ID' \\n text = 'XSLT-Serialization of XML-Fragment from XSDANY' & \\n ' into node ROOT' ). \\n\\ \\n xmlstr2 = serialize( \\n source = xsdstr \\n node = 'X' \\n trafo = 'ID' \\n text = 'XSLT-Serialization of XML-Fragment from XSDANY' & \\n ' into node X' ). \\n\\ \\n\\ \\n deserialize( \\n EXPORTING \\n source = xmlstr1 \\n node = 'ROOT' \\n trafo = 'ID' \\n text = 'XSLT-Deserialization of XSLT-result with node ROOT' & \\n ' into XSTRING' \\n IMPORTING result = xstr ). \\n deserialize( \\n EXPORTING \\n source = xmlstr2 \\n node = 'X' \\n trafo = 'ID' \\n text = 'XSLT-Deserialization of XSLT-result with node X' & \\n ' into XSTRING' \\n IMPORTING result = xstr ). \\n\\ \\n deserialize( \\n EXPORTING \\n source = xmlstr1 \\n node = 'ROOT' \\n trafo = 'ID' \\n text = 'XSLT-Deserialization of XSLT-result with node ROOT' & \\n ' into XSDANY' \\n IMPORTING result = xsdstr ). \\n deserialize( \\n EXPORTING \\n source = xmlstr2 \\n node = 'X' \\n trafo = 'ID' \\n text = 'XSLT-Deserialization of XSLT-result with node X' & \\n ' into XSDANY' \\n IMPORTING result = xsdstr ). \\n\\ \\n deserialize( \\n EXPORTING \\n source = xmlstr1 \\n node = 'X' \\n trafo = 'ID' \\n text = 'XSLT-Deserialization of XSLT-result with node ROOT' & \\n ' into XSDANY using node X' \\n IMPORTING result = xsdstr ). \\n deserialize( \\n EXPORTING \\n source = xmlstr2 \\n node = 'ROOT' \\n trafo = 'ID' \\n text = 'XSLT-Deserialization of XSLT-result with node X' & \\n ' into XSDANY using node ROOT' \\n IMPORTING result = xsdstr ). \\n\\ \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD deserialize. \\n FINAL(result\_tab) = VALUE abap\_trans\_resbind\_tab( \\n ( name = node value = REF #( result ) ) ). \\n TRY. \\n out->begin\_section( text ). \\n CALL TRANSFORMATION (trafo) \\n SOURCE XML source \\n RESULT (result\_tab) \\n OPTIONS clear = 'all'. \\n IF result IS NOT INITIAL. \\n out->write\_xml( result ). \\n ELSE. \\n out->write\_text( 'Initial' ). \\n ENDIF. \\n CATCH cx\_transformation\_error. \\n out->write\_text( 'Error' ). \\n ENDTRY. \\n out->end\_section( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD prepare\_fragment. \\n out->begin\_section( \\n )->begin\_section( 'XML-Fragment' ). \\n xml = cl\_abap\_conv\_codepage=>create\_out( )->convert( \\n \`\` && \\n \`\` && \\n \`Text\` && \\n \`Text1\` && \\n \`Text1\` && \\n \`\` ). \\n out->write\_xml( xml \\n )->end\_section( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD serialize. \\n FINAL(source\_tab) = VALUE abap\_trans\_srcbind\_tab( \\n ( name = node value = REF #( source ) ) ). \\n TRY. \\n out->begin\_section( text ). \\n CALL TRANSFORMATION (trafo) \\n SOURCE (source\_tab) \\n RESULT XML result. \\n out->write\_xml( result ). \\n CATCH cx\_transformation\_error. \\n out->write\_text( 'Error' ). \\n ENDTRY. \\n out->end\_section( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. abenabap.html abenabap\_reference.html abendata\_interchange.html abenabap\_xml.html abenabap\_xml\_trafos.html abenabap\_xslt\_asxml.html abenasxml\_abexas.html