---
title: "Demo for ABAP Keyword Documentation"
description: |
  n'! n'! Disclaimer:  n'! This class represents a demonstration program of the ABAP Keyword n'! Documentation, primarily intended to provide a better explanation n'! and visualization of syntax. It is not intended for production use n'! and may use demo artifacts that are not rel
library: "cloud"
libraryName: "ABAP Cloud"
category: "general"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_cp_index_htm/CLOUD/en-US/ABENDERIVED_TYPES_MISC_ABEXA.htm"
abapFile: "ABENDERIVED_TYPES_MISC_ABEXA.html"
keywords: ["select", "update", "delete", "loop", "do", "if", "case", "method", "class", "data", "types", "internal-table", "ABENDERIVED", "TYPES", "MISC", "ABEXA"]
---

This example demonstrates the use of the various [BDEF derived type](ABENRAP_DERIVED_TYPE_GLOSRY.html) components with a [managed](ABENBDL_IMPL_TYPE.html)\\ [RAP BO](ABENRAP_BO_GLOSRY.html) in the context of requesting permissions using multiple [`GET PERMISSIONS`](ABAPGET_PERMISSIONS.html) statements with variants of the [`ONLY` clause](ABAPGET_PERMISSIONS_ONLY_CLAUSE.html):

**Data model**

The CDS data model consists of the [root entity](ABENROOT_ENTITY_GLOSRY.html)\\ `DEMO_MANAGED_ROOT_PERM` and its [child entity](ABENCHILD_ENTITY_GLOSRY.html)\\ `DEMO_MANAGED_CHILD_PERM`. The child entity is not used in the example.

Root entity:

**Behavior definition**

The [RAP behavior definition](ABENCDS_BEHAVIOR_DEFINITION_GLOSRY.html)\\ `DEMO_MANAGED_ROOT_PERM` is defined in [RAP BDL](ABENCDS_BDL_GLOSRY.html) as follows:

**Behavior implementation**

For the above RAP behavior definition, one [ABP](ABENBEHAVIOR_POOL_GLOSRY.html) is created. The global class of the behavior pool is `BP_DEMO_MANAGED_ROOT_PERM`. The actual behavior implementation takes place in local classes that are defined and implemented in the `BP_DEMO_MANAGED_ROOT_PERM=====CCIMP` of the behavior pool.

The following methods are relevant for this example:

The above source code uses [EML](ABENEML_GLOSRY.html) to access the RAP business object from an ABAP class:

The example covers most variants of `only_clause` using the short form of the `GET PERMISSIONS` statement.

As a first step, the database table that is used in the example is emptied and filled again with demo values as a basis for the example. Request parameters for an entity are then specified. In this case, all fields, [standard](ABENCRUD_GLOSRY.html) and [nonstandard operations](ABENBDL_NONSTANDARD.html), and an associated entity (the child entity) are enabled. These parameters are used in all `GET PERMISSIONS` statements. All statements use the same input keys (except those statements where specifying the keys is not allowed) and include response parameters that are not used in the example.

The result of the individual `GET PERMISSIONS` statements is displayed in the output showing both `instance` table and `global` structure (see [`TYPE STRUCTURE FOR PERMISSIONS RESULT`](ABAPTYPE_STRUCTURE_FOR.html)).

Notes on the result, i. e. the entries in the output tables:

-   [`%action`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_ACTION.html)
-   [`%assoc`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_ASSOC.html)
-   [`%create`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_CREATE.html)
-   [`%delete`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_DELETE.html)
-   [`%features`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_FEATURES.html)
-   [`%field`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_FIELD.html)
-   [`%op`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_OP.html)
-   [`%perm`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_PERM.html)

-   `get_instance_features`
-   The method returns information on whether certain fields are read-only or can be modified based on certain conditions. Additionally, information is returned if the creation of instances for an associated entity (`_child`) is enabled or disabled. As a prerequisite in the BDEF, the two fields and the associated entity have the required notation `( features: instance )`. In the context of this method, the component `%features` is used.
-   `get_global_features`
-   The method returns information on whether update operations on entities and the execution of an action are allowed or not based on a certain condition, that is, updating and executing the action is only allowed within a certain time span. As a prerequisite in the BDEF, `update` and the action have the required notation `( features: global )`.
-   `get_global_authorizations`
-   The method is implemented in a way that create and delete operations are only enabled for users with the appropriate authorizations. In the interest of having a simple demo, the example goes without an authorization object which is, for example, a way to handle the authorization granting in production applications. The variable `auth_flag` represents the authorization that is granted or not. In this case, the permission is not granted. As a prerequisite in the BDEF, the notation `authorization master ( global )` exists. In this example, instance authorizations are also covered, hence, the notation is `authorization master ( global, instance )` in the BDEF.
-   `get_instance_authorizations`
-   The method returns information on whether delete operations and executions of an action are allowed on instances. In this example, deletion and action execution are not allowed if a field has a particular value. As a prerequisite in the BDEF, the notation `authorization master ( instance )` exists. In this example, global authorizations are also covered, hence, the notation is `authorization master ( global, instance )` in the BDEF. In the context of this method, the component `%op` is used.

-   `ONLY GLOBAL`
-   There are no entries in the `instance` table. The `global` structure includes the global authorization (the value *02*, i. e. `IF_ABAP_BEHV=>PERM-O-UNAUTHORIZED`, for the create and delete operation), and global feature controls (the values of `%update` and `%action-action` either show `00` for enabled or `01` for disabled). Furthermore, static information is available, too: The fields `%field-key_field` and the field `%field-field2` show the value `01` (i. e. `mandatory`), the field `%field-field1` shows the value `02` (i. e. `readonly`) as defined in the BDEF.
-   `ONLY GLOBAL FEATURES`
-   There are no entries in the `instance` table. The `global` structure includes the global feature control and static information (see the details above for `ONLY GLOBAL`).
-   `ONLY GLOBAL AUTHORIZATION`
-   There are no entries in the `instance` table. The `global` structure includes information on global authorization. The value *02*, i. e. `IF_ABAP_BEHV=>PERM-O-UNAUTHORIZED`, for the create and delete operation is displayed.
-   `ONLY INSTANCE`
-   The `instance` table includes information on instance-based authorization and instance-based feature control plus static information. According to the method `get_instance_features`, the value of `%assoc-_child` is *01* for the instance with key *1* denoting that the create-by-association operation is disabled in the context of this instance. In contrast to that, the operation is allowed for the instance with key *2* (the value is *00*). The read-only field `field-field1` shows the value *02*, i. e.`IF_ABAP_BEHV=>PERM-F-READ_ONLY`. `%field-field3` and `field-field4` show the values of the result after calling the `get_instance_features` method. The instance with the key *2* shows the value *02* for `%delete` as a result of calling the method `get_instance_authorizations`. The `global` structure includes the static information as outlined above for `ONLY GLOBAL`.
-   `ONLY INSTANCE FEATURES`
-   The `instance` table includes information on instance-based feature control. It shows the same values for both `instance` table and `global` structure as above for `ONLY INSTANCE` except for the instance-based authorization part (i. e. the instance with the key *2* does not include the result of the delete operation here).
-   `ONLY INSTANCE AUTHORIZATION`
-   The `instance` table includes information on instance-based authorization. The instance with the key *2* shows the value *02* for delete as a result of calling the method `get_instance_authorizations`. The instance with the key *1* is not included at all in the result. The `global` structure does not include any relevant values.
-   `ONLY FEATURES`
-   The `instance` table includes information on instance-based feature control plus static information (see the details above for `ONLY INSTANCE` except for the instance-based authorization part). The `global` structure includes the global feature control and static information (see the details above for `ONLY GLOBAL` except for the global authorization part).
-   `ONLY AUTHORIZATION`
-   The `instance` table includes information on instance-based authorization (see the details above for `ONLY INSTANCE AUTHORIZATION`). The `global` structure includes the information on global authorization (see the details above for `ONLY GLOBAL AUTHORIZATION`).
-   `ONLY AUTHORIZATION` (focus on `%perm` component group)
-   The implementation in the class serves the purpose of visualizing the `%perm` component group that is contained in the permission result of `GET PERMISSIONS` statements and how subcomponents of the result might be referred to. The result is of type [`TYPE STRUCTURE FOR PERMISSIONS RESULT`](ABAPTYPE_STRUCTURE_FOR.html). In the example, a structure type is set up containing the instance key as well as the subcomponents of `%perm`. An internal table is declared that is filled with the permission result from the `instance` table. The output shows this internal table. The outcome of the permission result corresponds to the entries in the `instance` table from the previous example with `ONLY AUTHORIZATION`.

@AccessControl.authorizationCheck: #NOT\_REQUIRED\\ndefine root view entity DEMO\_MANAGED\_ROOT\_REPORTED\\n as select from demo\_tab\_root\_5\\n composition \[1..\*\] of DEMO\_MANAGED\_CHILD\_REPORTED as \_child\\n \\{ \\n key key\_field,\\n field1,\\n field2,\\n field3,\\n field4,\\n \_child\\n \\}\\n managed implementation in class bp\_demo\_managed\_root\_perm unique;\\nstrict;\\n\\ndefine behavior for DEMO\_MANAGED\_ROOT\_PERM\\npersistent table DEMO\_TAB\_ROOT\_5\\nlock master\\nauthorization master ( global, instance )\\n\\{\\n create;\\n //dynamic global feature control\\n update( features : global );\\n delete;\\n //dynamic instance feature control\\n association \_child \\{ create( features : instance ); \\}\\n //static feature control\\n field ( readonly ) field1;\\n field ( readonly:update ) key\_field;\\n //static feature control\\n field ( mandatory ) field2;\\n //dynamic instance feature control\\n field ( features : instance ) field3, field4;\\n\\n action( features : global ) action;\\n\\}\\n\\ndefine behavior for DEMO\_MANAGED\_CHILD\_PERM\\npersistent table DEMO\_TAB\_CHILD\_5\\nlock dependent by \_parent\\nauthorization dependent by \_parent\\n\\{\\n update;\\n delete;\\n field ( readonly:update ) key\_field, key\_field\_child;\\n association \_parent;\\n\\} \* Public class definition \\n"!

Demo for ABAP Keyword Documentation

\\ \\n"! \\n"!

**Disclaimer:**
\\ \\n"! This class represents a demonstration program of the ABAP Keyword \\n"! Documentation, primarily intended to provide a better explanation \\n"! and visualization of syntax. It is not intended for production use \\n"! and may use demo artifacts that are not released as APIs for use \\n"! in ABAP for Cloud Development.

\\ \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_drvd\_types\_perm DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n METHODS constructor. \\n\\ \\n PRIVATE SECTION. \\n DATA: \\n request TYPE STRUCTURE FOR \\n PERMISSIONS REQUEST demo\_managed\_root\_perm, \\n perm\_result TYPE STRUCTURE FOR \\n PERMISSIONS RESULT demo\_managed\_root\_perm. \\n METHODS: \\n initialize\_dbtabs, \\n fill\_dbtabs. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_drvd\_types\_perm IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n "Set permissions request parameter. \\n request = VALUE #( \\n %create = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %update = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %delete = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %assoc-\_child = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %action-action = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %field-key\_field = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %field-field1 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %field-field2 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %field-field3 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %field-field4 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n ). \\n\\ \\n out->begin\_section( \`GET PERMISSIONS: Variants for only\_clause\` ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY GLOBAL \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY GLOBAL\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY GLOBAL ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_perm \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result\_only\_global) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed1) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported1). \\n\\ \\n out->write( result\_only\_global ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY GLOBAL FEATURES \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY GLOBAL FEATURES\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY GLOBAL FEATURES ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_perm \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result\_only\_global\_feat) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed2) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported2). \\n\\ \\n out->write( result\_only\_global\_feat ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY GLOBAL AUTHORIZATION \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY GLOBAL AUTHORIZATION\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY GLOBAL AUTHORIZATION \\n ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_perm \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result\_global\_auth) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed3) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported3). \\n\\ \\n out->write( result\_global\_auth ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY INSTANCE \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY INSTANCE\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY INSTANCE ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_perm \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %key-key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 2 ) ) \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result\_only\_inst) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed4) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported4). \\n\\ \\n out->write( result\_only\_inst ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY INSTANCE FEATURES \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY INSTANCE FEATURES\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY INSTANCE FEATURES ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_perm \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %key-key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 2 ) ) \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result\_only\_inst\_feat) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed5) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported5). \\n\\ \\n out->write( result\_only\_inst\_feat ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY INSTANCE AUTHORIZATION \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY INSTANCE AUTHORIZATION\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY INSTANCE AUTHORIZATION \\n ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_perm \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %key-key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 2 ) ) \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result\_only\_inst\_auth) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed6) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported6). \\n\\ \\n out->write( result\_only\_inst\_auth ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY FEATURES \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY FEATURES\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY FEATURES ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_perm \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %key-key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 2 ) ) \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result\_only\_feat) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed7) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported7). \\n\\ \\n out->write( result\_only\_feat ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY AUTHORIZATION \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY AUTHORIZATION\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY AUTHORIZATION ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_perm \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %key-key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 2 ) ) \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result\_only\_auth) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed8) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported8). \\n\\ \\n out->write( result\_only\_auth ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY AUTHORIZATION \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY AUTHORIZATION (focus on %perm\` && \\n \` component group)\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY AUTHORIZATION ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_perm \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %key-key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 2 ) ) \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT perm\_result \\n FAILED FINAL(failed9) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported9). \\n\\ \\n TYPES: BEGIN OF perm\_struc, \\n key TYPE i, \\n update TYPE abp\_behv\_op\_perm, \\n delete TYPE abp\_behv\_op\_perm, \\n action TYPE abp\_behv\_op\_perm, \\n assoc TYPE abp\_behv\_op\_perm, \\n field\_key\_field TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n field\_field1 TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n field\_field2 TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n field\_field3 TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n field\_field4 TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n END OF perm\_struc. \\n\\ \\n DATA perm\_tab TYPE TABLE OF perm\_struc WITH EMPTY KEY. \\n\\ \\n LOOP AT perm\_result-instances ASSIGNING FIELD-SYMBOL(). \\n APPEND VALUE #( \\n key = \-%key-key\_field \\n update = \-%perm-%update \\n delete = \-%perm-%delete \\n action = \-%perm-%action-action \\n assoc = \-%perm-%assoc-\_child \\n field\_key\_field = \-%perm-%field-key\_field \\n field\_field1 = \-%perm-%field-field1 \\n field\_field2 = \-%perm-%field-field2 \\n field\_field3 = \-%perm-%field-field3 \\n field\_field4 = \-%perm-%field-field4 \\n ) TO perm\_tab. \\n\\ \\n ENDLOOP. \\n\\ \\n out->write( perm\_tab ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD fill\_dbtabs. \\n MODIFY demo\_tab\_root\_5 FROM TABLE @( VALUE #( \\n ( key\_field = 1 \\n field1 = 'aaa' \\n field2 = 'A' \\n field3 = 15 \\n field4 = 3 ) \\n ( key\_field = 2 \\n field1 = 'bbb' \\n field2 = 'B' \\n field3 = 5 \\n field4 = 10 ) \\n ( key\_field = 3 \\n field1 = 'ccc' \\n field2 = 'B' \\n field3 = 20 \\n field4 = 2 ) \\n ) ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD initialize\_dbtabs. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_root\_5. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_child\_5. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD constructor. \\n super->constructor( ). \\n initialize\_dbtabs( ). \\n fill\_dbtabs( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. \* Public class definition \\n"!

Demo for ABAP Keyword Documentation

\\ \\n"! \\n"!

**Disclaimer:**
\\ \\n"! This class represents a demonstration program of the ABAP Keyword \\n"! Documentation, primarily intended to provide a better explanation \\n"! and visualization of syntax. It is not intended for production use \\n"! and may use demo artifacts that are not released as APIs for use \\n"! in ABAP for Cloud Development.

\\ \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_drvd\_types\_perm DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n METHODS constructor. \\n\\ \\n PRIVATE SECTION. \\n DATA: \\n request TYPE STRUCTURE FOR \\n PERMISSIONS REQUEST demo\_managed\_root\_perm, \\n perm\_result TYPE STRUCTURE FOR \\n PERMISSIONS RESULT demo\_managed\_root\_perm. \\n METHODS: \\n initialize\_dbtabs, \\n fill\_dbtabs. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_drvd\_types\_perm IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n "Set permissions request parameter. \\n request = VALUE #( \\n %create = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %update = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %delete = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %assoc-\_child = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %action-action = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %field-key\_field = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %field-field1 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %field-field2 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %field-field3 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %field-field4 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n ). \\n\\ \\n out->begin\_section( \`GET PERMISSIONS: Variants for only\_clause\` ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY GLOBAL \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY GLOBAL\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY GLOBAL ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_perm \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result\_only\_global) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed1) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported1). \\n\\ \\n out->write( result\_only\_global ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY GLOBAL FEATURES \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY GLOBAL FEATURES\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY GLOBAL FEATURES ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_perm \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result\_only\_global\_feat) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed2) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported2). \\n\\ \\n out->write( result\_only\_global\_feat ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY GLOBAL AUTHORIZATION \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY GLOBAL AUTHORIZATION\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY GLOBAL AUTHORIZATION \\n ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_perm \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result\_global\_auth) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed3) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported3). \\n\\ \\n out->write( result\_global\_auth ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY INSTANCE \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY INSTANCE\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY INSTANCE ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_perm \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %key-key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 2 ) ) \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result\_only\_inst) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed4) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported4). \\n\\ \\n out->write( result\_only\_inst ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY INSTANCE FEATURES \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY INSTANCE FEATURES\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY INSTANCE FEATURES ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_perm \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %key-key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 2 ) ) \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result\_only\_inst\_feat) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed5) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported5). \\n\\ \\n out->write( result\_only\_inst\_feat ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY INSTANCE AUTHORIZATION \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY INSTANCE AUTHORIZATION\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY INSTANCE AUTHORIZATION \\n ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_perm \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %key-key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 2 ) ) \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result\_only\_inst\_auth) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed6) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported6). \\n\\ \\n out->write( result\_only\_inst\_auth ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY FEATURES \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY FEATURES\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY FEATURES ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_perm \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %key-key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 2 ) ) \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result\_only\_feat) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed7) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported7). \\n\\ \\n out->write( result\_only\_feat ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY AUTHORIZATION \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY AUTHORIZATION\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY AUTHORIZATION ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_perm \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %key-key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 2 ) ) \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result\_only\_auth) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed8) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported8). \\n\\ \\n out->write( result\_only\_auth ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY AUTHORIZATION \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY AUTHORIZATION (focus on %perm\` && \\n \` component group)\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY AUTHORIZATION ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_perm \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %key-key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 2 ) ) \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT perm\_result \\n FAILED FINAL(failed9) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported9). \\n\\ \\n TYPES: BEGIN OF perm\_struc, \\n key TYPE i, \\n update TYPE abp\_behv\_op\_perm, \\n delete TYPE abp\_behv\_op\_perm, \\n action TYPE abp\_behv\_op\_perm, \\n assoc TYPE abp\_behv\_op\_perm, \\n field\_key\_field TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n field\_field1 TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n field\_field2 TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n field\_field3 TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n field\_field4 TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n END OF perm\_struc. \\n\\ \\n DATA perm\_tab TYPE TABLE OF perm\_struc WITH EMPTY KEY. \\n\\ \\n LOOP AT perm\_result-instances ASSIGNING FIELD-SYMBOL(). \\n APPEND VALUE #( \\n key = \-%key-key\_field \\n update = \-%perm-%update \\n delete = \-%perm-%delete \\n action = \-%perm-%action-action \\n assoc = \-%perm-%assoc-\_child \\n field\_key\_field = \-%perm-%field-key\_field \\n field\_field1 = \-%perm-%field-field1 \\n field\_field2 = \-%perm-%field-field2 \\n field\_field3 = \-%perm-%field-field3 \\n field\_field4 = \-%perm-%field-field4 \\n ) TO perm\_tab. \\n\\ \\n ENDLOOP. \\n\\ \\n out->write( perm\_tab ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD fill\_dbtabs. \\n MODIFY demo\_tab\_root\_5 FROM TABLE @( VALUE #( \\n ( key\_field = 1 \\n field1 = 'aaa' \\n field2 = 'A' \\n field3 = 15 \\n field4 = 3 ) \\n ( key\_field = 2 \\n field1 = 'bbb' \\n field2 = 'B' \\n field3 = 5 \\n field4 = 10 ) \\n ( key\_field = 3 \\n field1 = 'ccc' \\n field2 = 'B' \\n field3 = 20 \\n field4 = 2 ) \\n ) ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD initialize\_dbtabs. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_root\_5. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_child\_5. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD constructor. \\n super->constructor( ). \\n initialize\_dbtabs( ). \\n fill\_dbtabs( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. abenabap.html abenabap\_rap.html abenabap\_for\_rap\_bos.html abenrpm\_derived\_types.html abapderived\_types\_comp.html abenderived\_types\_abexas.html