---
title: "Demo for ABAP Keyword Documentation"
description: |
  n'! n'! Disclaimer:  n'! This class represents a demonstration program of the ABAP Keyword n'! Documentation, primarily intended to provide a better explanation n'! and visualization of syntax. It is not intended for production use n'! and may use demo artifacts that are not rel
library: "cloud"
libraryName: "ABAP Cloud"
category: "general"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_cp_index_htm/CLOUD/en-US/ABENRAP_MANAGED_UNM_SAVE_ABEXA.htm"
abapFile: "ABENRAP_MANAGED_UNM_SAVE_ABEXA.html"
keywords: ["select", "update", "delete", "loop", "do", "if", "case", "method", "class", "data", "types", "internal-table", "ABENRAP", "MANAGED", "UNM", "SAVE", "ABEXA"]
---

This example demonstrates the use of the BDEF-derived types `TYPE REQUEST FOR CHANGE` and `TYPE REQUEST FOR DELETE` in the context of a managed RAP BO whose BDEF is specified with [`with unmanaged save`](ABENBDL_SAVING.html). The saving of created, changed or deleted [RAP BO instances](ABENRAP_BO_INSTANCE_GLOSRY.html) is user-implemented in the `save_modified` method of the [ABP](ABENBEHAVIOR_POOL_GLOSRY.html).

**Data model**

The CDS data model consists of the root entity `DEMO_MANAGED_UNMANAGED_SAVE`.

Root entity:

**Behavior definition**

The [RAP behavior definition](ABENCDS_BEHAVIOR_DEFINITION_GLOSRY.html)\\ `DEMO_MANAGED_UNMANAGED_SAVE` is defined in [RAP BDL](ABENCDS_BDL_GLOSRY.html) as follows:

**Behavior implementation**

For the above RAP behavior definition, one [ABP](ABENBEHAVIOR_POOL_GLOSRY.html) is created. The global class of the behavior pool is `BP_DEMO_MANAGED_UNMANAGED_SAVE`. The actual behavior implementation takes place in local classes that are defined and implemented in the `BP_DEMO_MANAGED_UNMANAGED_SAVECCIMP` of the behavior pool.

The following method is relevant in this example:

**Access with ABAP using EML**

The above source code uses [EML](ABENEML_GLOSRY.html) to access the RAP business object from an ABAP class:

-   `save_modified`
-   At first, several type and variable declarations are available just for demonstration purposes. Among them, there are the [BDEF-derived types](ABENRAP_DERIVED_TYPE_GLOSRY.html)\\ `TYPE REQUEST FOR CHANGE`, `TYPE REQUEST FOR DELETE`, `TYPE TABLE FOR CHANGE` and `TYPE STRUCTURE FOR CHANGE`. These BDEF-derived types are only relevant in the contexts of a managed RAP BO [`with additional save`](ABENBDL_SAVING.html) and a managed RAP BO [`with unmanaged save`](ABENBDL_SAVING.html). Basically, the structures `create` and `update` (that are of type `TYPE REQUEST FOR CHANGE`) as well as `delete` (that is of `TYPE REQUEST FOR DELETE`) - they contain those instances that are to be created, changed or deleted - are available here by default and can actually be referred to directly instead of extra variable and type declarations as it is the case in this example. The declarations are followed by a further declaration of an internal table (`lt_tab`) that acts as a helper table to temporarily store the instances that are to be created, changed or deleted.
-   `IF` statements then check whether instances have been created, updated or deleted by a RAP BO consumer. In doing so, the `%control` structure is used to get information on which fields have been set when creating, updating or deleting the instance.
-   The `IF` statement for the created instances is implemented as follows: The internal table `lt_tab` is filled with the instance data created by the `CREATE` operation. A `LOOP` statement processes the individual instances. The data field values only get written to the internal table `lt_tab` if the data fields are not disabled for the operation in the `%control` structure. At the end of the `IF` statement, all the entries in the table `lt_tab` are saved to the database table `demo_tab_root_3` using an ABAP SQL `MODIFY` statement.
-   The `IF` statement processing those instances that have been updated is implemented similarly to above. However, to make sure that the update operation does not write blanks to the internal table `lt_tab`, an ABAP SQL `SELECT` statement gets all existing entries of the database table `demo_tab_root_3` at first. Hence, if a value for a particular data field is not provided or the field is marked as disabled in the `%control` structure, the already existing field value is taken over and not overwritten with an initial value.
-   The `IF` statement for the deleted instances deletes the entries from the database table using an ABAP SQL `DELETE` statement.

-   An ABAP EML `CREATE` operation is carried out. Two instances are created. The save sequence is triggered by the `COMMIT ENTITIES` statement. The underlying BDEF includes the syntax `with unmanaged save`. Thus, the ABP method `save_modified` is called in this example that saves the instances to the database table `demo_tab_root_3` as described in section **Behavior implementation**.
-   The `CREATE` operation is followed by an `UPDATE` operation that modifies the two previously created instances. The changes get committed as well. Some of the fields are disabled in the `%control` structure (using `if_abap_behv=>mk-off`). Hence, the existing field values are not changed.
-   Finally, one of the existing instances is deleted via a `DELETE` operation. Another commit triggers the deletion of the instance.
-   The output window shows the result of all three operations. For each operation, an internal table is displayed showing the entries of the database table.

@AccessControl.authorizationCheck: #NOT\_REQUIRED\\ndefine root view entity DEMO\_MANAGED\_UNMANAGED\_SAVE\\n as select from demo\_tab\_root\_3\\n \\{\\n key key\_field,\\n field1,\\n field2,\\n field3,\\n field4\\n \\}\\n managed with unmanaged save\\nimplementation in class bp\_demo\_managed\_unmanaged\_save unique;\\nstrict(2);\\n\\ndefine behavior for DEMO\_MANAGED\_UNMANAGED\_SAVE\\nlock master\\nauthorization master ( global )\\n\\{\\n create;\\n update;\\n delete;\\n field(readonly:update) key\_field;\\n\\} \* Public class definition \\n"!

Demo for ABAP Keyword Documentation

\\ \\n"! \\n"!

**Disclaimer:**
\\ \\n"! This class represents a demonstration program of the ABAP Keyword \\n"! Documentation, primarily intended to provide a better explanation \\n"! and visualization of syntax. It is not intended for production use \\n"! and may use demo artifacts that are not released as APIs for use \\n"! in ABAP for Cloud Development.

\\ \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_managed\_unm\_save DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n METHODS constructor. \\n\\ \\n PRIVATE SECTION. \\n METHODS: \\n initialize\_dbtabs. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_managed\_unm\_save IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_unmanaged\_save \\n CREATE FROM VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid1' \\n key\_field = 1 \\n %control-key\_field = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n field1 = 'create\_1' \\n %control-field1 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n field2 = 'create\_2' \\n %control-field2 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n field3 = 1 \\n %control-field3 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n field4 = 2 \\n %control-field4 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid2' \\n key\_field = 2 \\n %control-key\_field = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n field1 = 'create\_3' \\n %control-field1 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n field2 = 'create\_4' \\n %control-field2 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n field3 = 3 \\n %control-field3 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n field4 = 4 \\n %control-field4 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on ) \\n ). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, field3, field4 \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_3 ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(dbtab\_after\_create). \\n\\ \\n out->begin\_section( \\n \`Demo for a managed RAP BO with unmanaged save\` \\n )->next\_section( \`CREATE operation\` \\n )->write\_text( 'DB table entries after the CREATE operation' \\n )->write( dbtab\_after\_create \\n ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_unmanaged\_save \\n UPDATE FROM VALUE #( \\n ( key\_field = 1 \\n field1 = 'update\_1' \\n %control-field1 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n field2 = 'update\_2' \\n %control-field2 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-off \\n field3 = 5 \\n %control-field3 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-off \\n field4 = 6 \\n %control-field4 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on ) \\n ( key\_field = 2 \\n field1 = 'update\_3' \\n %control-field1 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-off \\n field2 = 'update\_4' \\n %control-field2 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n field3 = 7 \\n %control-field3 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n field4 = 8 \\n %control-field4 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-off ) \\n ). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, field3, field4 \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_3 ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(dbtab\_after\_update). \\n\\ \\n out->line( \\n )->next\_section( \`UPDATE operation\` \\n )->write\_text( 'DB table entries after the UPDATE operation' \\n )->write( dbtab\_after\_update \\n ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_unmanaged\_save \\n DELETE FROM VALUE #( ( key\_field = 2 ) ). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, field3, field4 \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_3 ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(dbtab\_after\_delete). \\n\\ \\n out->line( \\n )->next\_section( \`DELETE operation\` \\n )->write\_text( 'DB table entries after the DELETE operation' \\n )->write( dbtab\_after\_delete \\n ). \\n\\ \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD initialize\_dbtabs. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_root\_3. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD constructor. \\n super->constructor( ). \\n initialize\_dbtabs( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. \* Public class definition \\n"!

Demo for ABAP Keyword Documentation

\\ \\n"! \\n"!

**Disclaimer:**
\\ \\n"! This class represents a demonstration program of the ABAP Keyword \\n"! Documentation, primarily intended to provide a better explanation \\n"! and visualization of syntax. It is not intended for production use \\n"! and may use demo artifacts that are not released as APIs for use \\n"! in ABAP for Cloud Development.

\\ \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_managed\_unm\_save DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n METHODS constructor. \\n\\ \\n PRIVATE SECTION. \\n METHODS: \\n initialize\_dbtabs. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_managed\_unm\_save IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_unmanaged\_save \\n CREATE FROM VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid1' \\n key\_field = 1 \\n %control-key\_field = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n field1 = 'create\_1' \\n %control-field1 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n field2 = 'create\_2' \\n %control-field2 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n field3 = 1 \\n %control-field3 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n field4 = 2 \\n %control-field4 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid2' \\n key\_field = 2 \\n %control-key\_field = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n field1 = 'create\_3' \\n %control-field1 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n field2 = 'create\_4' \\n %control-field2 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n field3 = 3 \\n %control-field3 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n field4 = 4 \\n %control-field4 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on ) \\n ). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, field3, field4 \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_3 ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(dbtab\_after\_create). \\n\\ \\n out->begin\_section( \\n \`Demo for a managed RAP BO with unmanaged save\` \\n )->next\_section( \`CREATE operation\` \\n )->write\_text( 'DB table entries after the CREATE operation' \\n )->write( dbtab\_after\_create \\n ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_unmanaged\_save \\n UPDATE FROM VALUE #( \\n ( key\_field = 1 \\n field1 = 'update\_1' \\n %control-field1 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n field2 = 'update\_2' \\n %control-field2 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-off \\n field3 = 5 \\n %control-field3 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-off \\n field4 = 6 \\n %control-field4 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on ) \\n ( key\_field = 2 \\n field1 = 'update\_3' \\n %control-field1 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-off \\n field2 = 'update\_4' \\n %control-field2 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n field3 = 7 \\n %control-field3 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n field4 = 8 \\n %control-field4 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-off ) \\n ). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, field3, field4 \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_3 ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(dbtab\_after\_update). \\n\\ \\n out->line( \\n )->next\_section( \`UPDATE operation\` \\n )->write\_text( 'DB table entries after the UPDATE operation' \\n )->write( dbtab\_after\_update \\n ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_unmanaged\_save \\n DELETE FROM VALUE #( ( key\_field = 2 ) ). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, field3, field4 \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_3 ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(dbtab\_after\_delete). \\n\\ \\n out->line( \\n )->next\_section( \`DELETE operation\` \\n )->write\_text( 'DB table entries after the DELETE operation' \\n )->write( dbtab\_after\_delete \\n ). \\n\\ \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD initialize\_dbtabs. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_root\_3. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD constructor. \\n super->constructor( ). \\n initialize\_dbtabs( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. abenabap.html abenabap\_rap.html abenabap\_for\_rap\_bos.html abenrpm\_derived\_types.html abaptype\_request\_for.html