---
title: "Demo for ABAP Keyword Documentation"
description: |
  n'! n'! Disclaimer:  n'! This class represents a demonstration program of the ABAP Keyword n'! Documentation, primarily intended to provide a better explanation n'! and visualization of syntax. It is not intended for production use n'! and may use demo artifacts that are not rel
library: "cloud"
libraryName: "ABAP Cloud"
category: "general"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_cp_index_htm/CLOUD/en-US/ABENEML_MODIFY_AUGM_RELATING_ABEXA.htm"
abapFile: "ABENEML_MODIFY_AUGM_RELATING_ABEXA.html"
keywords: ["select", "update", "delete", "do", "if", "case", "method", "class", "data", "ABENEML", "MODIFY", "AUGM", "RELATING", "ABEXA"]
---

This example demonstrates the ABAP EML `MODIFY` statement with the additions `AUGMENTING` and `RELATING TO` with a RAP projection business object.

**Base BDEF**

The base BDEF is the managed RAP behavior definition `DEMO_MANAGED_ROOT_RELATING`.

**Projection BDEF**

The projection BDEF reuses the standard operations from the base BDEF and augments `update` operations.

**Behavior implementation**

For the above projection BDEF, one [behavior pool](ABENBEHAVIOR_POOL_GLOSRY.html) is created. The global class of the behavior pool is `BP_DEMO_MANAGED_PROJ_RELATING`. The actual behavior implementation takes place in local classes that are defined and implemented in the `BP_DEMO_MANAGED_PROJ_RELATING=CCIMP` of the behavior pool. In the behavior pool, operation augmentation is implemented in the following method:

**Access with ABAP using EML**

The above source code uses [EML](ABENEML_GLOSRY.html) to access the RAP business object from an ABAP class:

-   `augment_update`
-   It does not augment an original base instance for the operation `update`. Instead, the example augmentation updates a field value of another instance. For demonstration purposes, instances are referred to using a different key value. In this case, the key value of the other instance is determined just by using the next higher integer value of the key field.
-   A specific field is updated that will - based on specific values - intentionally fail in the precheck for the update operation in the ABAP behavior pool `BP_DEMO_MANAGED_PROJ_RELATING`. The update is rejected if the field `field2` has the value `up2` and `up3`. Failed and reported messages are then added.
-   To relate the augment instances to original instances, variable of type `ABP_BEHV_RELATING_TAB` is filled.

-   Using an ABAP EML `MODIFY` statement, multiple instances are created via the projection BO for demonstration data. Three `MODIFY` statements follow for update operations.
-   First update operation:

-   An ABAP EML modify request for one instance updates one field via the projection BO. This modify request is successful, and an additional instance is updated via the augment request. The effect of the statements is demonstrated by displaying the retrieved data from the underlying database table. In case of failures, early and late failed and reported responses are displayed. The content of the table used for the `RELATING` addition is also displayed for demonstration.

-   Second and third update operation:

-   These operations are similar to the first but the augment requests deliberately fail, as the prechecks are not successful. The implementation uses `MODIFY AUGMENTING` with the `RELATING TO` addition, ensuring that the augment instance relates to the original instance.
-   The relation of the augment instance to the original instance is illustrated by the example in the early failed response. The original instance with `key_field = 2` is augmented. In the augment request the instance with `key_field = 3` is updated, but the update fails due to the precheck, resulting in early failed and reported messages. The early failed response shows the relation: An issue for instance with `key_field = 2` is added, not for the instance with `key_field = 3`. The latter appears in the reported response.
-   The same applies to the third update operation. If the `MODIFY AUGMENTING` statement was used without the `RELATING TO` addition, as is hinted in the implementation with the commented out code section, relating the augment instance to the original instance would not be possible and would violate the [RAP BO contract](ABENRAP_BO_CONTRACT_GLOSRY.html).

managed implementation in class bp\_demo\_managed\_root\_relating unique;\\nstrict ( 2 );\\n\\ndefine behavior for demo\_managed\_root\_relating alias \_Root\\npersistent table demo\_tab\_root\_5\\nlock master\\nauthorization master ( none )\\n\\n\\{\\n create;\\n update ( precheck );\\n delete;\\n field ( readonly : update ) key\_field;\\n\\} projection implementation in class bp\_demo\_managed\_proj\_relating unique;\\nstrict ( 2 );\\n\\ndefine behavior for DEMO\_MANAGED\_PROJ\_RELATING\\n\\{\\n use create;\\n use update ( augment );\\n use delete;\\n\\} \* Public class definition \\n"!

Demo for ABAP Keyword Documentation

\\ \\n"! \\n"!

**Disclaimer:**
\\ \\n"! This class represents a demonstration program of the ABAP Keyword \\n"! Documentation, primarily intended to provide a better explanation \\n"! and visualization of syntax. It is not intended for production use \\n"! and may use demo artifacts that are not released as APIs for use \\n"! in ABAP for Cloud Development.

\\ \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_eml\_augm\_relating DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC . \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n METHODS constructor. \\n\\ \\n PRIVATE SECTION. \\n METHODS: \\n initialize\_dbtabs, \\n select\_from\_db\_and\_display, \\n display\_early\_responses IMPORTING out TYPE REF TO if\_demo\_output, \\n display\_late\_responses IMPORTING out TYPE REF TO if\_demo\_output. \\n DATA root\_tab TYPE TABLE OF demo\_tab\_root\_5 WITH EMPTY KEY. \\n DATA m TYPE RESPONSE FOR MAPPED EARLY demo\_managed\_proj\_relating. \\n DATA f TYPE RESPONSE FOR FAILED EARLY demo\_managed\_proj\_relating. \\n DATA r TYPE RESPONSE FOR REPORTED EARLY demo\_managed\_proj\_relating. \\n DATA f\_late TYPE abp\_behv\_response\_tab. \\n DATA r\_late TYPE abp\_behv\_response\_tab. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_eml\_augm\_relating IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n "Creating RAP BO instances for update operations \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_proj\_relating \\n CREATE FIELDS ( key\_field field1 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( ( %cid = 'cid1' \\n key\_field = 1 \\n field1 = 'abc' \\n field3 = 10 \\n field4 = 100 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid2' \\n key\_field = 2 \\n field1 = 'def' \\n field3 = 20 \\n field4 = 200 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid3' \\n key\_field = 3 \\n field1 = 'ghi' \\n field3 = 30 \\n field4 = 300 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid4' \\n key\_field = 4 \\n field1 = 'jkl' \\n field3 = 40 \\n field4 = 400 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid5' \\n key\_field = 5 \\n field1 = 'mno' \\n field3 = 50 \\n field4 = 500 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid6' \\n key\_field = 6 \\n field1 = 'pqr' \\n field3 = 60 \\n field4 = 600 ) ) \\n MAPPED m \\n FAILED f \\n REPORTED r. \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`Augmentation works\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_proj\_relating \\n UPDATE FIELDS ( field1 ) WITH VALUE #( ( key\_field = 1 \\n field1 = 'X' ) ) \\n FAILED f \\n REPORTED r. \\n\\ \\n display\_early\_responses( out ). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSES FAILED f\_late REPORTED r\_late. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n display\_late\_responses( out ). \\n\\ \\n select\_from\_db\_and\_display( ). \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`RELATING table\` \\n )->write( bp\_demo\_managed\_proj\_relating=>relates\_mapping\_tab ). \\n\\ \\n out->line( ). \\n ROLLBACK ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`Augmentation does not work (1)\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_proj\_relating \\n UPDATE FIELDS ( field1 ) WITH VALUE #( ( key\_field = 2 \\n field1 = 'Y' ) ) \\n FAILED f \\n REPORTED r. \\n\\ \\n display\_early\_responses( out ). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSES FAILED f\_late REPORTED r\_late. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n display\_late\_responses( out ). \\n\\ \\n select\_from\_db\_and\_display( ). \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`RELATING table\` \\n )->write( bp\_demo\_managed\_proj\_relating=>relates\_mapping\_tab ). \\n\\ \\n out->line( ). \\n ROLLBACK ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`Augmentation does not work (2)\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_proj\_relating \\n UPDATE FIELDS ( field1 ) WITH VALUE #( ( key\_field = 3 \\n field1 = 'Z' ) ) \\n FAILED f \\n REPORTED r. \\n\\ \\n display\_early\_responses( out ). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSES FAILED f\_late REPORTED r\_late. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n display\_late\_responses( out ). \\n\\ \\n select\_from\_db\_and\_display( ). \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`RELATING table\` \\n )->write( bp\_demo\_managed\_proj\_relating=>relates\_mapping\_tab ). \\n\\ \\n ROLLBACK ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD constructor. \\n super->constructor( ). \\n initialize\_dbtabs( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD initialize\_dbtabs. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_root\_5. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD display\_early\_responses. \\n IF f IS NOT INITIAL. \\n out->write( f ). \\n ENDIF. \\n IF r IS NOT INITIAL. \\n out->write( r ). \\n ENDIF. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD display\_late\_responses. \\n IF f\_late IS NOT INITIAL. \\n out->write( f\_late ). \\n ENDIF. \\n IF r\_late IS NOT INITIAL. \\n out->write( r\_late ). \\n ENDIF. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD select\_from\_db\_and\_display. \\n SELECT \* \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_5 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @root\_tab. \\n\\ \\n IF root\_tab IS NOT INITIAL. \\n out->write( \\n \`Database table entries of ROOT after the create operation:\` \\n )->write( root\_tab ). \\n ENDIF. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. \* Public class definition \\n"!

Demo for ABAP Keyword Documentation

\\ \\n"! \\n"!

**Disclaimer:**
\\ \\n"! This class represents a demonstration program of the ABAP Keyword \\n"! Documentation, primarily intended to provide a better explanation \\n"! and visualization of syntax. It is not intended for production use \\n"! and may use demo artifacts that are not released as APIs for use \\n"! in ABAP for Cloud Development.

\\ \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_eml\_augm\_relating DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC . \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n METHODS constructor. \\n\\ \\n PRIVATE SECTION. \\n METHODS: \\n initialize\_dbtabs, \\n select\_from\_db\_and\_display, \\n display\_early\_responses IMPORTING out TYPE REF TO if\_demo\_output, \\n display\_late\_responses IMPORTING out TYPE REF TO if\_demo\_output. \\n DATA root\_tab TYPE TABLE OF demo\_tab\_root\_5 WITH EMPTY KEY. \\n DATA m TYPE RESPONSE FOR MAPPED EARLY demo\_managed\_proj\_relating. \\n DATA f TYPE RESPONSE FOR FAILED EARLY demo\_managed\_proj\_relating. \\n DATA r TYPE RESPONSE FOR REPORTED EARLY demo\_managed\_proj\_relating. \\n DATA f\_late TYPE abp\_behv\_response\_tab. \\n DATA r\_late TYPE abp\_behv\_response\_tab. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_eml\_augm\_relating IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n "Creating RAP BO instances for update operations \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_proj\_relating \\n CREATE FIELDS ( key\_field field1 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( ( %cid = 'cid1' \\n key\_field = 1 \\n field1 = 'abc' \\n field3 = 10 \\n field4 = 100 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid2' \\n key\_field = 2 \\n field1 = 'def' \\n field3 = 20 \\n field4 = 200 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid3' \\n key\_field = 3 \\n field1 = 'ghi' \\n field3 = 30 \\n field4 = 300 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid4' \\n key\_field = 4 \\n field1 = 'jkl' \\n field3 = 40 \\n field4 = 400 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid5' \\n key\_field = 5 \\n field1 = 'mno' \\n field3 = 50 \\n field4 = 500 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid6' \\n key\_field = 6 \\n field1 = 'pqr' \\n field3 = 60 \\n field4 = 600 ) ) \\n MAPPED m \\n FAILED f \\n REPORTED r. \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`Augmentation works\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_proj\_relating \\n UPDATE FIELDS ( field1 ) WITH VALUE #( ( key\_field = 1 \\n field1 = 'X' ) ) \\n FAILED f \\n REPORTED r. \\n\\ \\n display\_early\_responses( out ). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSES FAILED f\_late REPORTED r\_late. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n display\_late\_responses( out ). \\n\\ \\n select\_from\_db\_and\_display( ). \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`RELATING table\` \\n )->write( bp\_demo\_managed\_proj\_relating=>relates\_mapping\_tab ). \\n\\ \\n out->line( ). \\n ROLLBACK ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`Augmentation does not work (1)\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_proj\_relating \\n UPDATE FIELDS ( field1 ) WITH VALUE #( ( key\_field = 2 \\n field1 = 'Y' ) ) \\n FAILED f \\n REPORTED r. \\n\\ \\n display\_early\_responses( out ). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSES FAILED f\_late REPORTED r\_late. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n display\_late\_responses( out ). \\n\\ \\n select\_from\_db\_and\_display( ). \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`RELATING table\` \\n )->write( bp\_demo\_managed\_proj\_relating=>relates\_mapping\_tab ). \\n\\ \\n out->line( ). \\n ROLLBACK ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`Augmentation does not work (2)\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_proj\_relating \\n UPDATE FIELDS ( field1 ) WITH VALUE #( ( key\_field = 3 \\n field1 = 'Z' ) ) \\n FAILED f \\n REPORTED r. \\n\\ \\n display\_early\_responses( out ). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSES FAILED f\_late REPORTED r\_late. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n display\_late\_responses( out ). \\n\\ \\n select\_from\_db\_and\_display( ). \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`RELATING table\` \\n )->write( bp\_demo\_managed\_proj\_relating=>relates\_mapping\_tab ). \\n\\ \\n ROLLBACK ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD constructor. \\n super->constructor( ). \\n initialize\_dbtabs( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD initialize\_dbtabs. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_root\_5. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD display\_early\_responses. \\n IF f IS NOT INITIAL. \\n out->write( f ). \\n ENDIF. \\n IF r IS NOT INITIAL. \\n out->write( r ). \\n ENDIF. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD display\_late\_responses. \\n IF f\_late IS NOT INITIAL. \\n out->write( f\_late ). \\n ENDIF. \\n IF r\_late IS NOT INITIAL. \\n out->write( r\_late ). \\n ENDIF. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD select\_from\_db\_and\_display. \\n SELECT \* \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_5 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @root\_tab. \\n\\ \\n IF root\_tab IS NOT INITIAL. \\n out->write( \\n \`Database table entries of ROOT after the create operation:\` \\n )->write( root\_tab ). \\n ENDIF. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. abenabap.html abenabap\_rap.html abenabap\_for\_rap\_bos.html abenabap\_provide\_rap\_bos.html abeneml\_in\_abp.html abapmodify\_aug\_entity\_entities.html