---
title: "Demo for ABAP Keyword Documentation"
description: |
  n'! n'! Disclaimer:  n'! This class represents a demonstration program of the ABAP Keyword n'! Documentation, primarily intended to provide a better explanation n'! and visualization of syntax. It is not intended for production use n'! and may use demo artifacts that are not rel
library: "cloud"
libraryName: "ABAP Cloud"
category: "general"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_cp_index_htm/CLOUD/en-US/ABENRAP_CL_ABAP_BEHV_AUX_ABEXA.htm"
abapFile: "ABENRAP_CL_ABAP_BEHV_AUX_ABEXA.html"
keywords: ["select", "update", "delete", "do", "if", "case", "method", "class", "data", "internal-table", "ABENRAP", "ABAP", "BEHV", "AUX", "ABEXA"]
---

This example demonstrates the use of methods of the class `CL_ABAP_BEHV_AUX` by focusing on the filling of the specific parameters in multiple contexts.

**Note** This example does not fully meet the requirements of the [RAP BO contract](ABENRAP_BO_CONTRACT_GLOSRY.html). It is intentionally kept short and simple and focuses on specific RAP aspects. For example, some [RAP handler method](ABENABP_HANDLER_METHOD_GLOSRY.html) implementations might be empty. See more information on the RAP BO contract in the [Development guide for the ABAP RESTful Application Programming Model](https://help.sap.com/docs/ABAP_Cloud/f055b8bf582d4f34b91da667bc1fcce6/3a402c5cf6a74bc1a1de080b2a7c6978?version=sap_cross_product_abap).

**Used artifacts in the example**

**Access with ABAP using EML**

The above source code uses [EML](ABENEML_GLOSRY.html) to access the RAP business object, the RAP BO interface and RAP projection BO from an ABAP class and performs the following steps:

1.  Create operation directly on the root entity
2.  Instances are created directly on the root entity. The instances are saved to the database table whose entries are displayed. Additionally, the outcome of setting the parameters when calling the methods of class `CL_ABAP_BEHV_AUX` is displayed. This is also true for the following steps.
3.  Create operation on the root entity via interface
4.  More instances are created on the root entity, however, with an ABAP EML `MODIFY` request via the RAP BO interface. Hence, the `from_interface` parameter is filled after calling the `get_current_context` method.
5.  Action execution via RAP BO interface extension
6.  An action which is implemented in an extension ABP is called via a RAP BO interface extension. This method simply updates the value of a specific field. The output of the method calls demonstrates that also methods of the base BO's ABP are called. The context for `in_local_mode` is true in this case.
7.  Create operation on the root entity via a projection
8.  More instances are created on the root entity, however, with an ABAP EML `MODIFY` request via the RAP BO projection. Hence, the `from_projection` parameter is filled after calling the `get_current_context` method.

\* Public class definition \\n"!

Demo for ABAP Keyword Documentation

\\ \\n"! \\n"!

**Disclaimer:**
\\ \\n"! This class represents a demonstration program of the ABAP Keyword \\n"! Documentation, primarily intended to provide a better explanation \\n"! and visualization of syntax. It is not intended for production use \\n"! and may use demo artifacts that are not released as APIs for use \\n"! in ABAP for Cloud Development.

\\ \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_cl\_abap\_behv\_aux DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n METHODS constructor. \\n\\ \\n PRIVATE SECTION. \\n METHODS: \\n initialize\_dbtabs. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_cl\_abap\_behv\_aux IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n out->begin\_section( \`Demo: cl\_abap\_behv\_aux\` \\n )->write\_doc( \`**1) Create operation directly \` && \\n \`on the root entity**\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITIES OF demo\_ext\_m \\n ENTITY Root \\n CREATE FIELDS ( key\_field field1 field2 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( ( %cid = 'cid1' \\n key\_field = 1 \\n field1 = 'aaa' \\n field2 = 'bbb' \\n field3 = 10 \\n field4 = 11 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid2' \\n key\_field = 2 \\n field1 = 'ccc' \\n field2 = 'ddd' \\n field3 = 20 \\n field4 = 21 ) ) \\n MAPPED FINAL(m1) \\n FAILED FINAL(f1) \\n REPORTED FINAL(r1). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, field3, field4 \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_5 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(create\_root). \\n\\ \\n out->write( create\_root \\n )->write( bp\_demo\_ext\_m=>behv\_aux\_table \\n )->line( ). \\n\\ \\n CLEAR bp\_demo\_ext\_m=>behv\_aux\_table. \\n\\ \\n out->write\_doc( \`**2) Create operation on the root \` && \\n \`entity via interface**\` ). \\n\\ \\n "Creating instances of the root entity via the interface \\n MODIFY ENTITIES OF demo\_intf\_m \\n ENTITY root\_interface \\n CREATE FIELDS ( key\_field field1 field2 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( ( %cid = 'cid3' \\n key\_field = 3 \\n field1 = 'eee' \\n field2 = 'fff' \\n field3 = 30 \\n field4 = 31 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid4' \\n key\_field = 4 \\n field1 = 'ggg' \\n field2 = 'hhh' \\n field3 = 40 \\n field4 = 41 ) ) \\n MAPPED FINAL(map2) \\n FAILED FINAL(f2) \\n REPORTED FINAL(r2). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, field3, field4 \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_5 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(create\_via\_itf). \\n\\ \\n out->write( create\_via\_itf \\n )->write( bp\_demo\_ext\_m=>behv\_aux\_table \\n )->line( ). \\n\\ \\n CLEAR bp\_demo\_ext\_m=>behv\_aux\_table. \\n\\ \\n out->write\_doc( \`**3) Action execution via RAP BO \` && \\n \`interface extension**\` ). \\n\\ \\n "Executing an action via RAP BO interface extension \\n MODIFY ENTITIES OF demo\_intf\_m \\n ENTITY root\_interface \\n EXECUTE set\_value\_ext \\n FROM VALUE #( ( key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( key\_field = 2 ) \\n ( key\_field = 3 ) \\n ( key\_field = 4 ) ) \\n MAPPED FINAL(m3) \\n FAILED FINAL(f3) \\n REPORTED FINAL(r3). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, field3, field4 \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_5 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(action\_via\_bo\_intf). \\n\\ \\n out->write( action\_via\_bo\_intf \\n )->write( bp\_demo\_ext\_m=>behv\_aux\_table \\n )->line( ). \\n\\ \\n CLEAR bp\_demo\_ext\_m=>behv\_aux\_table. \\n\\ \\n out->write\_doc( \`**4) Create operation on the root \` && \\n \`entity via a projection**\` ). \\n\\ \\n "Creating instances of the root entity via a projection \\n "Note that the projection view has only a subset of fields. \\n MODIFY ENTITIES OF demo\_proj\_m \\n ENTITY proj \\n CREATE FIELDS ( key\_field field1 field2 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( ( %cid = 'cid5' \\n key\_field = 5 \\n field1 = 'iii' \\n field2 = 'jjj' ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid6' \\n key\_field = 6 \\n field1 = 'kkk' \\n field2 = 'lll' ) ) \\n MAPPED FINAL(m4) \\n FAILED FINAL(f4) \\n REPORTED FINAL(r4). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, field3, field4 \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_5 \\n ORDER BY key\_field INTO TABLE @FINAL(create\_via\_proj). \\n\\ \\n out->write( create\_via\_proj \\n )->write( bp\_demo\_ext\_m=>behv\_aux\_table ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD initialize\_dbtabs. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_root\_5. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD constructor. \\n super->constructor( ). \\n initialize\_dbtabs( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. \* Public class definition \\n"!

Demo for ABAP Keyword Documentation

\\ \\n"! \\n"!

**Disclaimer:**
\\ \\n"! This class represents a demonstration program of the ABAP Keyword \\n"! Documentation, primarily intended to provide a better explanation \\n"! and visualization of syntax. It is not intended for production use \\n"! and may use demo artifacts that are not released as APIs for use \\n"! in ABAP for Cloud Development.

\\ \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_cl\_abap\_behv\_aux DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n METHODS constructor. \\n\\ \\n PRIVATE SECTION. \\n METHODS: \\n initialize\_dbtabs. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_cl\_abap\_behv\_aux IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n out->begin\_section( \`Demo: cl\_abap\_behv\_aux\` \\n )->write\_doc( \`**1) Create operation directly \` && \\n \`on the root entity**\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITIES OF demo\_ext\_m \\n ENTITY Root \\n CREATE FIELDS ( key\_field field1 field2 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( ( %cid = 'cid1' \\n key\_field = 1 \\n field1 = 'aaa' \\n field2 = 'bbb' \\n field3 = 10 \\n field4 = 11 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid2' \\n key\_field = 2 \\n field1 = 'ccc' \\n field2 = 'ddd' \\n field3 = 20 \\n field4 = 21 ) ) \\n MAPPED FINAL(m1) \\n FAILED FINAL(f1) \\n REPORTED FINAL(r1). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, field3, field4 \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_5 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(create\_root). \\n\\ \\n out->write( create\_root \\n )->write( bp\_demo\_ext\_m=>behv\_aux\_table \\n )->line( ). \\n\\ \\n CLEAR bp\_demo\_ext\_m=>behv\_aux\_table. \\n\\ \\n out->write\_doc( \`**2) Create operation on the root \` && \\n \`entity via interface**\` ). \\n\\ \\n "Creating instances of the root entity via the interface \\n MODIFY ENTITIES OF demo\_intf\_m \\n ENTITY root\_interface \\n CREATE FIELDS ( key\_field field1 field2 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( ( %cid = 'cid3' \\n key\_field = 3 \\n field1 = 'eee' \\n field2 = 'fff' \\n field3 = 30 \\n field4 = 31 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid4' \\n key\_field = 4 \\n field1 = 'ggg' \\n field2 = 'hhh' \\n field3 = 40 \\n field4 = 41 ) ) \\n MAPPED FINAL(map2) \\n FAILED FINAL(f2) \\n REPORTED FINAL(r2). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, field3, field4 \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_5 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(create\_via\_itf). \\n\\ \\n out->write( create\_via\_itf \\n )->write( bp\_demo\_ext\_m=>behv\_aux\_table \\n )->line( ). \\n\\ \\n CLEAR bp\_demo\_ext\_m=>behv\_aux\_table. \\n\\ \\n out->write\_doc( \`**3) Action execution via RAP BO \` && \\n \`interface extension**\` ). \\n\\ \\n "Executing an action via RAP BO interface extension \\n MODIFY ENTITIES OF demo\_intf\_m \\n ENTITY root\_interface \\n EXECUTE set\_value\_ext \\n FROM VALUE #( ( key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( key\_field = 2 ) \\n ( key\_field = 3 ) \\n ( key\_field = 4 ) ) \\n MAPPED FINAL(m3) \\n FAILED FINAL(f3) \\n REPORTED FINAL(r3). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, field3, field4 \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_5 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(action\_via\_bo\_intf). \\n\\ \\n out->write( action\_via\_bo\_intf \\n )->write( bp\_demo\_ext\_m=>behv\_aux\_table \\n )->line( ). \\n\\ \\n CLEAR bp\_demo\_ext\_m=>behv\_aux\_table. \\n\\ \\n out->write\_doc( \`**4) Create operation on the root \` && \\n \`entity via a projection**\` ). \\n\\ \\n "Creating instances of the root entity via a projection \\n "Note that the projection view has only a subset of fields. \\n MODIFY ENTITIES OF demo\_proj\_m \\n ENTITY proj \\n CREATE FIELDS ( key\_field field1 field2 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( ( %cid = 'cid5' \\n key\_field = 5 \\n field1 = 'iii' \\n field2 = 'jjj' ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid6' \\n key\_field = 6 \\n field1 = 'kkk' \\n field2 = 'lll' ) ) \\n MAPPED FINAL(m4) \\n FAILED FINAL(f4) \\n REPORTED FINAL(r4). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, field3, field4 \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_5 \\n ORDER BY key\_field INTO TABLE @FINAL(create\_via\_proj). \\n\\ \\n out->write( create\_via\_proj \\n )->write( bp\_demo\_ext\_m=>behv\_aux\_table ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD initialize\_dbtabs. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_root\_5. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD constructor. \\n super->constructor( ). \\n initialize\_dbtabs( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. **What** **CDS view** **BDEF** **Behavior Pool (ABP)**\\ **Notes**\\ Base [RAP business object](ABENRAP_BO_GLOSRY.html) \\ `DEMO_EXT_M` \\ `DEMO_EXT_M`\\ \\ `BP_DEMO_EXT_M=================CCIMP`\\ The CDS data model only consists of one node constituting the root entity. \\
\\
The BDEF defines a managed RAP BO. It is also defined as `extensible`. \\
\\
Since it is a simple example serving demonstration purposes, the RAP handler methods in the ABP do not contain any meaningful implementations. Each method implementation contains calls for the methods `get_current_context` and `get_current_handler_kind`. The return values of the method parameters are stored in a [nested structure](ABENNESTED_STRUCTURE_GLOSRY.html) in the global class of the ABP and added to an internal table for displaying purposes. [RAP BO interface](ABENRAP_BO_INTERFACE_GLOSRY.html) \\ `DEMO_INTF_M`\\ \\ `DEMO_INTF_M` \\ The interface BDEF projects the original RAP BO. RAP BO interface extension \\ \\ `DEMO_INTF_EXT_M`\\ The BDEF extension extends the RAP BO via its interface. It addresses the root node by its interface name. It adds one extension action to the RAP BO which is implemented in the extension ABP. This action simply updates the value of a specific field with a default value. Additionally, the methods in the extension ABP contains similar code snippets for method calls as mentioned above. `BP_DEMO_INTF_EXT_M============CCIMP` \\ [RAP projection business object](ABENRAP_PROJECTION_BO_GLOSRY.html) \\ `DEMO_PROJ_M`\\ \\ `DEMO_PROJ_M`\\ \\ The CDS projection view is based on the CDS view of the base BO's CDS view (the projected entity) and exposes only a subset of elements. abenabap.html abenabap\_rap.html abenabap\_for\_rap\_bos.html abenabap\_rap\_other.html abaprap\_system\_classes.html abaprap\_cl\_abap\_behv\_aux.html