---
title: "Demo for ABAP Keyword Documentation"
description: |
  n'! n'! Disclaimer:  n'! This class represents a demonstration program of the ABAP Keyword n'! Documentation, primarily intended to provide a better explanation n'! and visualization of syntax. It is not intended for production use n'! and may use demo artifacts that are not rel
library: "cloud"
libraryName: "ABAP Cloud"
category: "general"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_cp_index_htm/CLOUD/en-US/ABENGET_PERM_ONLY_ABEXA.htm"
abapFile: "ABENGET_PERM_ONLY_ABEXA.html"
keywords: ["select", "update", "delete", "loop", "do", "if", "case", "method", "class", "data", "types", "internal-table", "ABENGET", "PERM", "ONLY", "ABEXA"]
---

This example demonstrates all variants of the `only_clause` with a simple managed RAP BO.

**Data model**

The CDS data model consists of the root entity `DEMO_MANAGED_ROOT_3` and its child entity `DEMO_MANAGED_CHILD_3`.

Root entity:

Child entity:

**Behavior definition**

The [RAP behavior definition](ABENCDS_BEHAVIOR_DEFINITION_GLOSRY.html)\\ `DEMO_MANAGED_ROOT_3` is defined in [RAP BDL](ABENCDS_BDL_GLOSRY.html) as follows:

**Behavior implementation**

For the above RAP behavior definition, one [ABP](ABENBEHAVIOR_POOL_GLOSRY.html) is created. The global class of the behavior pool is `BP_DEMO_MANAGED_ROOT_3`. The actual implementation takes place in the `BP_DEMO_MANAGED_ROOT_3========CCIMP`.

The following methods are relevant for this example:

**Access with ABAP using EML**

The above source code uses [EML](ABENEML_GLOSRY.html) to access the RAP business object from an ABAP class:

The example covers all variants of `only_clause` using the short form of the `GET PERMISSIONS` statement.

As a first step, the database tables that are used in the example are emptied and filled again with demo values as a basis for the example. Request parameters for an entity are then specified. In this case, all fields, operations and one associated entity (the child entity) are enabled. These parameters are used in all `GET PERMISSIONS` statements. All statements use the same input keys (except those statements where specifying the keys is not allowed) and include response parameters that are not used in the example.

The result of the individual `GET PERMISSIONS` statements is displayed on the output screen. For that purpose, internal tables are set up that contain the values from the `instance` table and `global` structure.

Notes on the result, i. e. the entries in the output tables:

-   `get_instance_features`
-   The method returns information on whether certain fields (`data_field3_root` and `data_field4_root`) are read-only or can be modified based on certain conditions. Additionally, information is returned if the creation of instances for an associated entity (`_child`) is enabled or disabled. As a prerequisite in the BDEF, the two fields and the associated entity have the required notation `( features: instance )`.
-   `get_global_features`
-   The method returns information on whether update operations on entities are allowed or not based on a certain condition, that is, updating is only allowed within a certain time span. As a prerequisite in the BDEF, `update` has the required notation `( features: global )`.
-   `get_global_authorizations`
-   The method is implemented in a way that create and delete operations are only enabled for users with the appropriate authorizations. In the interest of having a simple demo, the example goes without an authorization object which is, for example, a way to handle the authorization granting in production applications. The variable `auth_flag` represents the authorization that is granted or not. In this case, the permission is not granted. As a prerequisite in the BDEF, the notation `authorization master ( global )` exists. In this example, instance authorizations are also covered, hence, the notation is `authorization master ( global, instance )` in the BDEF.
-   `get_instance_authorizations`
-   The method returns information on whether delete operations are allowed on instances. In this example, the deletion is not allowed if `data_field2_root` has a particular value. As a prerequisite in the BDEF, the notation `authorization master ( instance )` exists. In this example, global authorizations are also covered, hence, the notation is `authorization master ( global, instance )` in the BDEF.

-   `ONLY GLOBAL`
-   There are no entries in the `instance` table, hence, no table is displayed. The `global` structure includes the global authorization (the value `02`, i. e. `IF_ABAP_BEHV=>PERM-O-UNAUTHORIZED`, for the create and delete operation is displayed) and global feature controls (the value of `update` either shows `00` for enabled or `01` for disabled). Furthermore, static information is available, too: The `key_field` (here `_key`) and the field `data_field2_root` show the value `01` (i. e. `mandatory`), the field `data_field1_root` shows the value `02` (i. e. `readonly`) as defined in the BDEF.
-   `ONLY GLOBAL FEATURES`
-   There are no entries in the `instance` table, hence, no table is displayed. The `global` structure includes the global feature control and static information (see the details of `ONLY GLOBAL`).
-   `ONLY GLOBAL AUTHORIZATION`
-   There are no entries in the `instance` table, hence, no table is displayed. The `global` structure includes global authorization. The value `02`, i. e. `IF_ABAP_BEHV=>PERM-O-UNAUTHORIZED`, for the create and delete operation is displayed.
-   `ONLY INSTANCE`
-   The `instance` table includes instance-based authorization and instance-based feature control plus static information. According to the method `get_instance_features`, the value of `assoc` is `01` for the instance with key `1` denoting that the create-by-association operation is disabled in the context of this instance. In contrast to that, the operation is allowed for the instance with key `2` (the value is `00`). The read-only field `data_field1_root` shows the value `02`, i. e.`IF_ABAP_BEHV=>PERM-F-READ_ONLY`. `data_field3_root` and `data_field4_root` show the values of the result after calling the `get_instance_features` method. The instance with the key `2` shows the value `02` for `delete` as a result of calling the method `get_instance_authorizations`. The `global` structure includes the static information as outlined in `ONLY GLOBAL`.
-   `ONLY INSTANCE FEATURES`
-   The `instance` table includes instance-based feature control. It shows the same values for both `instance` table and `global` structure as in `ONLY INSTANCE` except for the instance-based authorization part (i. e. the instance with the key `2` does not include the result of the delete operation here).
-   `ONLY INSTANCE AUTHORIZATION`
-   The `instance` table includes instance-based authorization. The instance with the key `2` shows the value `02` for delete as a result of calling the method `get_instance_authorizations`. The instance with the key `1` is not included at all in the result. The `global` structure does not include any relevant values.
-   `ONLY FEATURES`
-   The `instance` table includes instance-based feature control plus static information (see the details of `ONLY INSTANCE` except for the instance-based authorization part). The `global` structure includes the global feature control and static information (see the details of `ONLY GLOBAL` except for the global authorization part).
-   `ONLY AUTHORIZATION`
-   The `instance` table includes instance-based authorization (see the details of `ONLY INSTANCE AUTHORIZATION`). The `global` structure includes the global authorization (see the details of `ONLY GLOBAL AUTHORIZATION`).
-   `ONLY dyn_spec`
-   The result is the same as for `ONLY AUTHORIZATION`. The variant `ONLY AUTHORIZATION` is specified dynamically using the enumeration value of type `T_PERMISSIONS_ONLY` of interface `IF_ABAP_BEHV`.

@AccessControl.authorizationCheck: #NOT\_REQUIRED\\ndefine root view entity DEMO\_MANAGED\_ROOT\_3\\n as select from demo\_tab\_root\_2\\n composition \[1..1\] of DEMO\_MANAGED\_CHILD\_3 as \_child\\n \\{\\n \_child,\\n key demo\_tab\_root\_2.key\_field,\\n demo\_tab\_root\_2.data\_field1\_root,\\n demo\_tab\_root\_2.data\_field2\_root,\\n demo\_tab\_root\_2.data\_field3\_root,\\n demo\_tab\_root\_2.data\_field4\_root\\n \\}\\n @AccessControl.authorizationCheck: #NOT\_REQUIRED\\ndefine view entity DEMO\_MANAGED\_CHILD\_3\\n as select from demo\_tab\_child\_2\\n association to parent DEMO\_MANAGED\_ROOT\_3 as \_parent \\n on $projection.key\_field = \_parent.key\_field\\n \\{\\n \_parent,\\n key demo\_tab\_child\_2.key\_field,\\n demo\_tab\_child\_2.data\_field1\_child,\\n demo\_tab\_child\_2.data\_field2\_child,\\n demo\_tab\_child\_2.data\_field3\_child,\\n demo\_tab\_child\_2.data\_field4\_child\\n \\}\\n managed implementation in class bp\_demo\_managed\_root\_3 unique;\\nstrict;\\n\\ndefine behavior for DEMO\_MANAGED\_ROOT\_3\\npersistent table DEMO\_TAB\_ROOT\_2\\nlock master\\n//global + instance authorization\\nauthorization master ( global, instance )\\n\\{\\n create;\\n //dynamic global feature control\\n update( features : global );\\n delete;\\n //dynamic instance feature control\\n association \_child \\{ create( features : instance ); \\}\\n //static feature control\\n field ( readonly ) data\_field1\_root;\\n //static feature control\\n field ( mandatory ) data\_field2\_root;\\n field ( readonly:update ) key\_field;\\n //dynamic instance feature control\\n field ( features : instance ) data\_field3\_root, data\_field4\_root;\\n\\n action action;\\n\\}\\n\\ndefine behavior for DEMO\_MANAGED\_CHILD\_3 alias child\\npersistent table DEMO\_TAB\_CHILD\_2\\nlock dependent by \_parent\\nauthorization dependent by \_parent\\n\\{\\n field ( readonly ) key\_field;\\n update;\\n delete;\\n association \_parent;\\n\\} \* Public class definition \\n"!

Demo for ABAP Keyword Documentation

\\ \\n"! \\n"!

**Disclaimer:**
\\ \\n"! This class represents a demonstration program of the ABAP Keyword \\n"! Documentation, primarily intended to provide a better explanation \\n"! and visualization of syntax. It is not intended for production use \\n"! and may use demo artifacts that are not released as APIs for use \\n"! in ABAP for Cloud Development.

\\ \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_eml\_get\_perm\_only DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n METHODS constructor. \\n\\ \\n PRIVATE SECTION. \\n TYPES: BEGIN OF ls\_result\_inst, \\n key\_field TYPE i, \\n update TYPE abp\_behv\_op\_perm, \\n delete TYPE abp\_behv\_op\_perm, \\n assoc TYPE abp\_behv\_op\_perm, \\n \_key TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n data\_field1\_root TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n data\_field2\_root TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n data\_field3\_root TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n data\_field4\_root TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n END OF ls\_result\_inst, \\n BEGIN OF ls\_result\_global, \\n create TYPE abp\_behv\_op\_perm, \\n update TYPE abp\_behv\_op\_perm, \\n delete TYPE abp\_behv\_op\_perm, \\n assoc TYPE abp\_behv\_op\_perm, \\n \_key TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n data\_field1\_root TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n data\_field2\_root TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n data\_field3\_root TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n data\_field4\_root TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n END OF ls\_result\_global, \\n tt\_result\_inst TYPE TABLE OF ls\_result\_inst, \\n tt\_result\_global TYPE TABLE OF ls\_result\_global, \\n str\_type TYPE STRUCTURE FOR \\n PERMISSIONS RESULT demo\_managed\_root\_3, \\n inst\_tab TYPE str\_type-instances, \\n global\_str TYPE str\_type-global. \\n DATA: \\n lt\_result\_inst TYPE tt\_result\_inst, \\n lt\_result\_global TYPE tt\_result\_global, \\n request TYPE STRUCTURE FOR \\n PERMISSIONS REQUEST demo\_managed\_root\_3. \\n METHODS: \\n initialize\_dbtabs, \\n fill\_dbtabs, \\n output\_tabs IMPORTING i\_tab TYPE inst\_tab \\n g\_str TYPE global\_str. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_eml\_get\_perm\_only IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n "Set permissions request parameter. \\n request = VALUE #( \\n %create = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %update = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %assoc-\_child = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %delete = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %field-key\_field = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %field-data\_field1\_root = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %field-data\_field2\_root = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %field-data\_field3\_root = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %field-data\_field4\_root = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n ). \\n\\ \\n out->begin\_section( \`GET PERMISSIONS: Variants for only\_clause\` ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY GLOBAL \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY GLOBAL\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY GLOBAL ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_3 \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result1) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed1) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported1). \\n\\ \\n output\_tabs( i\_tab = result1-instances g\_str = result1-global ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY GLOBAL FEATURES \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY GLOBAL FEATURES\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY GLOBAL FEATURES ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_3 \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result2) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed2) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported2). \\n\\ \\n output\_tabs( i\_tab = result2-instances g\_str = result2-global ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY GLOBAL AUTHORIZATION \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY GLOBAL AUTHORIZATION\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY GLOBAL AUTHORIZATION \\n ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_3 \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result3) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed3) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported3). \\n\\ \\n output\_tabs( i\_tab = result3-instances g\_str = result3-global ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY INSTANCE \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY INSTANCE\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY INSTANCE ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_3 \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %key-key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 2 ) ) \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result4) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed4) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported4). \\n\\ \\n output\_tabs( i\_tab = result4-instances g\_str = result4-global ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY INSTANCE FEATURES \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY INSTANCE FEATURES\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY INSTANCE FEATURES ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_3 \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %key-key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 2 ) ) \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result5) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed5) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported5). \\n\\ \\n output\_tabs( i\_tab = result5-instances g\_str = result5-global ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY INSTANCE AUTHORIZATION \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY INSTANCE AUTHORIZATION\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY INSTANCE AUTHORIZATION \\n ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_3 \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %key-key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 2 ) ) \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result6) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed6) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported6). \\n\\ \\n output\_tabs( i\_tab = result6-instances g\_str = result6-global ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY FEATURES \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY FEATURES\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY FEATURES ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_3 \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %key-key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 2 ) ) \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result7) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed7) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported7). \\n\\ \\n output\_tabs( i\_tab = result7-instances g\_str = result7-global ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY AUTHORIZATION \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY AUTHORIZATION\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY AUTHORIZATION ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_3 \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %key-key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 2 ) ) \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result8) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed8) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported8). \\n\\ \\n output\_tabs( i\_tab = result8-instances g\_str = result8-global ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY dyn\_tab \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY dyn\_var\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY (if\_abap\_behv=>permissions\_only-authorization) \\n ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_3 \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %key-key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 2 ) ) \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result9) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed9) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported9). \\n\\ \\n output\_tabs( i\_tab = result9-instances g\_str = result9-global ). \\n\\ \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD fill\_dbtabs. \\n MODIFY demo\_tab\_root\_2 FROM TABLE @( VALUE #( \\n ( key\_field = 1 \\n data\_field1\_root = 'aaa' \\n data\_field2\_root = 'A' \\n data\_field3\_root = 15 \\n data\_field4\_root = 3 ) \\n ( key\_field = 2 \\n data\_field1\_root = 'bbb' \\n data\_field2\_root = 'B' \\n data\_field3\_root = 5 \\n data\_field4\_root = 10 ) \\n ( key\_field = 3 \\n data\_field1\_root = 'ccc' \\n data\_field2\_root = 'B' \\n data\_field3\_root = 20 \\n data\_field4\_root = 2 ) \\n ) ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD initialize\_dbtabs. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_root\_2. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_child\_2. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD output\_tabs. \\n out->write( \`Entries in INSTANCE table:\` ). \\n LOOP AT i\_tab ASSIGNING FIELD-SYMBOL(). \\n APPEND VALUE #( \\n key\_field = \-key\_field \\n update = \-%update \\n delete = \-%delete \\n assoc = \-%assoc-\_child \\n \_key = \-%field-key\_field \\n data\_field1\_root = \-%field-data\_field1\_root \\n data\_field2\_root = \-%field-data\_field2\_root \\n data\_field3\_root = \-%field-data\_field3\_root \\n data\_field4\_root = \-%field-data\_field4\_root \\n ) TO lt\_result\_inst. \\n ENDLOOP. \\n IF lt\_result\_inst IS INITIAL. \\n out->write( \`No entries for INSTANCE table.\` ). \\n ELSE. \\n out->write( lt\_result\_inst ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`Entries in GLOBAL structure:\` ). \\n\\ \\n APPEND VALUE #( \\n create = g\_str-%create \\n update = g\_str-%update \\n delete = g\_str-%delete \\n assoc = g\_str-%assoc-\_child \\n \_key = g\_str-%field-key\_field \\n data\_field1\_root = g\_str-%field-data\_field1\_root \\n data\_field2\_root = g\_str-%field-data\_field2\_root \\n data\_field3\_root = g\_str-%field-data\_field3\_root \\n data\_field4\_root = g\_str-%field-data\_field4\_root \\n ) TO lt\_result\_global. \\n\\ \\n out->write( lt\_result\_global ). \\n\\ \\n CLEAR lt\_result\_inst. \\n CLEAR lt\_result\_global. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD constructor. \\n super->constructor( ). \\n initialize\_dbtabs( ). \\n fill\_dbtabs( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. \* Public class definition \\n"!

Demo for ABAP Keyword Documentation

\\ \\n"! \\n"!

**Disclaimer:**
\\ \\n"! This class represents a demonstration program of the ABAP Keyword \\n"! Documentation, primarily intended to provide a better explanation \\n"! and visualization of syntax. It is not intended for production use \\n"! and may use demo artifacts that are not released as APIs for use \\n"! in ABAP for Cloud Development.

\\ \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_eml\_get\_perm\_only DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n METHODS constructor. \\n\\ \\n PRIVATE SECTION. \\n TYPES: BEGIN OF ls\_result\_inst, \\n key\_field TYPE i, \\n update TYPE abp\_behv\_op\_perm, \\n delete TYPE abp\_behv\_op\_perm, \\n assoc TYPE abp\_behv\_op\_perm, \\n \_key TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n data\_field1\_root TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n data\_field2\_root TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n data\_field3\_root TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n data\_field4\_root TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n END OF ls\_result\_inst, \\n BEGIN OF ls\_result\_global, \\n create TYPE abp\_behv\_op\_perm, \\n update TYPE abp\_behv\_op\_perm, \\n delete TYPE abp\_behv\_op\_perm, \\n assoc TYPE abp\_behv\_op\_perm, \\n \_key TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n data\_field1\_root TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n data\_field2\_root TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n data\_field3\_root TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n data\_field4\_root TYPE abp\_behv\_field\_perm, \\n END OF ls\_result\_global, \\n tt\_result\_inst TYPE TABLE OF ls\_result\_inst, \\n tt\_result\_global TYPE TABLE OF ls\_result\_global, \\n str\_type TYPE STRUCTURE FOR \\n PERMISSIONS RESULT demo\_managed\_root\_3, \\n inst\_tab TYPE str\_type-instances, \\n global\_str TYPE str\_type-global. \\n DATA: \\n lt\_result\_inst TYPE tt\_result\_inst, \\n lt\_result\_global TYPE tt\_result\_global, \\n request TYPE STRUCTURE FOR \\n PERMISSIONS REQUEST demo\_managed\_root\_3. \\n METHODS: \\n initialize\_dbtabs, \\n fill\_dbtabs, \\n output\_tabs IMPORTING i\_tab TYPE inst\_tab \\n g\_str TYPE global\_str. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_eml\_get\_perm\_only IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n "Set permissions request parameter. \\n request = VALUE #( \\n %create = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %update = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %assoc-\_child = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %delete = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %field-key\_field = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %field-data\_field1\_root = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %field-data\_field2\_root = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %field-data\_field3\_root = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %field-data\_field4\_root = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n ). \\n\\ \\n out->begin\_section( \`GET PERMISSIONS: Variants for only\_clause\` ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY GLOBAL \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY GLOBAL\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY GLOBAL ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_3 \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result1) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed1) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported1). \\n\\ \\n output\_tabs( i\_tab = result1-instances g\_str = result1-global ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY GLOBAL FEATURES \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY GLOBAL FEATURES\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY GLOBAL FEATURES ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_3 \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result2) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed2) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported2). \\n\\ \\n output\_tabs( i\_tab = result2-instances g\_str = result2-global ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY GLOBAL AUTHORIZATION \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY GLOBAL AUTHORIZATION\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY GLOBAL AUTHORIZATION \\n ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_3 \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result3) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed3) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported3). \\n\\ \\n output\_tabs( i\_tab = result3-instances g\_str = result3-global ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY INSTANCE \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY INSTANCE\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY INSTANCE ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_3 \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %key-key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 2 ) ) \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result4) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed4) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported4). \\n\\ \\n output\_tabs( i\_tab = result4-instances g\_str = result4-global ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY INSTANCE FEATURES \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY INSTANCE FEATURES\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY INSTANCE FEATURES ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_3 \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %key-key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 2 ) ) \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result5) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed5) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported5). \\n\\ \\n output\_tabs( i\_tab = result5-instances g\_str = result5-global ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY INSTANCE AUTHORIZATION \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY INSTANCE AUTHORIZATION\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY INSTANCE AUTHORIZATION \\n ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_3 \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %key-key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 2 ) ) \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result6) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed6) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported6). \\n\\ \\n output\_tabs( i\_tab = result6-instances g\_str = result6-global ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY FEATURES \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY FEATURES\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY FEATURES ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_3 \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %key-key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 2 ) ) \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result7) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed7) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported7). \\n\\ \\n output\_tabs( i\_tab = result7-instances g\_str = result7-global ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY AUTHORIZATION \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY AUTHORIZATION\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY AUTHORIZATION ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_3 \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %key-key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 2 ) ) \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result8) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed8) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported8). \\n\\ \\n output\_tabs( i\_tab = result8-instances g\_str = result8-global ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "ONLY dyn\_tab \\n out->next\_section( \`ONLY dyn\_var\` ). \\n\\ \\n GET PERMISSIONS ONLY (if\_abap\_behv=>permissions\_only-authorization) \\n ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_3 \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %key-key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 2 ) ) \\n REQUEST request \\n RESULT FINAL(result9) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed9) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported9). \\n\\ \\n output\_tabs( i\_tab = result9-instances g\_str = result9-global ). \\n\\ \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD fill\_dbtabs. \\n MODIFY demo\_tab\_root\_2 FROM TABLE @( VALUE #( \\n ( key\_field = 1 \\n data\_field1\_root = 'aaa' \\n data\_field2\_root = 'A' \\n data\_field3\_root = 15 \\n data\_field4\_root = 3 ) \\n ( key\_field = 2 \\n data\_field1\_root = 'bbb' \\n data\_field2\_root = 'B' \\n data\_field3\_root = 5 \\n data\_field4\_root = 10 ) \\n ( key\_field = 3 \\n data\_field1\_root = 'ccc' \\n data\_field2\_root = 'B' \\n data\_field3\_root = 20 \\n data\_field4\_root = 2 ) \\n ) ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD initialize\_dbtabs. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_root\_2. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_child\_2. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD output\_tabs. \\n out->write( \`Entries in INSTANCE table:\` ). \\n LOOP AT i\_tab ASSIGNING FIELD-SYMBOL(). \\n APPEND VALUE #( \\n key\_field = \-key\_field \\n update = \-%update \\n delete = \-%delete \\n assoc = \-%assoc-\_child \\n \_key = \-%field-key\_field \\n data\_field1\_root = \-%field-data\_field1\_root \\n data\_field2\_root = \-%field-data\_field2\_root \\n data\_field3\_root = \-%field-data\_field3\_root \\n data\_field4\_root = \-%field-data\_field4\_root \\n ) TO lt\_result\_inst. \\n ENDLOOP. \\n IF lt\_result\_inst IS INITIAL. \\n out->write( \`No entries for INSTANCE table.\` ). \\n ELSE. \\n out->write( lt\_result\_inst ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`Entries in GLOBAL structure:\` ). \\n\\ \\n APPEND VALUE #( \\n create = g\_str-%create \\n update = g\_str-%update \\n delete = g\_str-%delete \\n assoc = g\_str-%assoc-\_child \\n \_key = g\_str-%field-key\_field \\n data\_field1\_root = g\_str-%field-data\_field1\_root \\n data\_field2\_root = g\_str-%field-data\_field2\_root \\n data\_field3\_root = g\_str-%field-data\_field3\_root \\n data\_field4\_root = g\_str-%field-data\_field4\_root \\n ) TO lt\_result\_global. \\n\\ \\n out->write( lt\_result\_global ). \\n\\ \\n CLEAR lt\_result\_inst. \\n CLEAR lt\_result\_global. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD constructor. \\n super->constructor( ). \\n initialize\_dbtabs( ). \\n fill\_dbtabs( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. abenabap.html abenabap\_rap.html abenabap\_for\_rap\_bos.html abenabap\_consume\_rap\_bos.html abeneml.html abapget\_permissions.html abenget\_permissions\_abexas.html