---
title: "Demo for ABAP Keyword Documentation"
description: |
  n'! n'! Disclaimer:  n'! This class represents a demonstration program of the ABAP Keyword n'! Documentation, primarily intended to provide a better explanation n'! and visualization of syntax. It is not intended for production use n'! and may use demo artifacts that are not rel
library: "cloud"
libraryName: "ABAP Cloud"
category: "general"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_cp_index_htm/CLOUD/en-US/ABENCL_ABAP_BEH_SAVER_FAILED_ABEXA.htm"
abapFile: "ABENCL_ABAP_BEH_SAVER_FAILED_ABEXA.html"
keywords: ["select", "update", "delete", "do", "if", "case", "try", "method", "class", "data", "ABENCL", "ABAP", "BEH", "SAVER", "FAILED", "ABEXA"]
---

This example demonstrates the RAP saver class `CL_ABAP_BEHAVIOR_SAVER_FAILED` using a simple managed RAP BO [with unmanaged save](ABENBDL_SAVING.html).

**Data model**

The CDS data model consists of the root entity `DEMO_SAVE_F_UNM_S_M`.

Root entity:

**Behavior definition**

The [RAP behavior definition](ABENCDS_BEHAVIOR_DEFINITION_GLOSRY.html)\\ `DEMO_SAVE_F_UNM_S_M` is defined in [RAP BDL](ABENCDS_BDL_GLOSRY.html) as follows:

**Behavior implementation**

For the above RAP behavior definition, one [ABP](ABENBEHAVIOR_POOL_GLOSRY.html) is created. The global class of the behavior pool is `BP_DEMO_SAVE_F_UNM_S_M`. The actual behavior implementation takes place in local classes that are defined and implemented in the `BP_DEMO_SAVE_F_UNM_S_M========CCIMP` of the behavior pool. The ABP includes the implementation of a validation. In this simple example, the validation fails if particular fields have particular values.

The class `LSC_DEMO_SAVE_F_UNM_S_M` is the RAP saver class that inherits from `CL_ABAP_BEHAVIOR_SAVER_FAILED`. The `SAVE_MODIFIED` saver method is implemented in a way that a save is denied for a RAP BO instance if particular fields have particular values in a RAP create operation.

**Access with ABAP using EML**

The above source code uses [EML](ABENEML_GLOSRY.html) to access the RAP business object from an ABAP class.

The example demonstrates different ABAP EML requests. Among them, there are modify requests including a create operation to create one instance in most cases. `COMMIT ENTITIES` statements trigger the save sequence. These statements include the retrieval of the [RAP response parameters](ABENRAP_RESPONSE_PARAM_GLOSRY.html)\\ `failed` and `reported`. After most modify requests, the responses - if there are any - are displayed. A `SELECT` statement retrieves the entries on the database table to show the effect of the RAP operations.

The following is covered:

1.  Successful saving of a RAP BO instance
2.  Demonstrates a successful RAP create operation. The validation and the saving is carried out successfully. The value of `sy-subrc` is 0 after the `COMMIT ENTITIES` statement. There are no early and late responses.
3.  Failure in the RAP interaction phase
4.  Demonstrates a failure in the RAP interaction phase. The RAP create operation includes two RAP BO instances. One of these includes a key value that is already available in the database table. Hence, the creation of this instance fails. The early failed response includes an entry. A subsequent read operation shows that the erroneous instance is not present in the transactional buffer. The other instance is then saved to the database.
5.  Failure in the early save phase
6.  Demonstrates a failure in the early phase of the RAP save sequence (the validation fails). The value of `sy-subrc` is 4 after the `COMMIT ENTITIES` statement. A read operation demonstrates that the RAP BO instance that has failed is still available in the [RAP transactional buffer](ABENTRANSACTIONAL_BUFFER_GLOSRY.html). A RAP update operation is carried out on the failed instance to correct the issue.
7.  Failure in the late save phase
8.  Demonstrates a failure in the late phase of the RAP save sequence (in the `SAVE_MODIFIED` method). Due to the implementation mentioned above, the saving of the RAP BO instance is denied. The response parameters are filled in the `SAVE_MODIFIED` method. The value of `sy-subrc` is 8 after the `COMMIT ENTITIES` statement. A read operation demonstrates that the RAP BO instance that has failed is not available in the transactional buffer.
9.  RAP BO consumer proceeds after a failure in the late save phase
10.  After an issue occurred earlier in the late save phase, `sy-subrc` was set to 8. The RAP BO consumer cannot continue unless there is an explicit rollback. Therefore, the example includes a `ROLLBACK ENTITIES` statement that precedes another RAP create operation. If the statement is not specified, the runtime error `CX_SADL_DUMP_APPL_MODEL_ERROR` will be raised.

@AccessControl.authorizationCheck: #NOT\_REQUIRED\\ndefine root view entity DEMO\_SAVE\_F\_UNM\_S\_M as select from demo\_tab\_root\_7\\n\\{\\n key key\_field,\\n char1,\\n char2,\\n num1,\\n num2\\n\\}\\n managed with unmanaged save\\nimplementation in class bp\_demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m unique;\\nstrict ( 2 );\\n\\ndefine behavior for DEMO\_SAVE\_F\_UNM\_S\_M alias root\\nlock master\\nauthorization master ( global )\\n\\{\\n create;\\n update;\\n delete;\\n field(readonly:update) key\_field;\\n validation validate on save \\{ create; update; delete; \\}\\n\\} \* Public class definition \\n"!

Demo for ABAP Keyword Documentation

\\ \\n"! \\n"!

**Disclaimer:**
\\ \\n"! This class represents a demonstration program of the ABAP Keyword \\n"! Documentation, primarily intended to provide a better explanation \\n"! and visualization of syntax. It is not intended for production use \\n"! and may use demo artifacts that are not released as APIs for use \\n"! in ABAP for Cloud Development.

\\ \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_saver\_failed DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n METHODS constructor. \\n\\ \\n PRIVATE SECTION. \\n DATA: \\n f\_early TYPE RESPONSE FOR FAILED EARLY demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m, \\n rep\_early TYPE RESPONSE FOR REPORTED EARLY demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m, \\n f\_late TYPE RESPONSE FOR FAILED LATE demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m, \\n rep\_late TYPE RESPONSE FOR REPORTED LATE demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m. \\n METHODS: \\n select\_from\_dbtab, \\n display\_responses. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_saver\_failed IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n out->begin\_section( \`Demonstrating cl\_abap\_behavior\_saver\_failed\` \\n )->line( \\n )->write( \`----- Successful saving \` && \\n \`(sy-subcr = 0 after committing) -----\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m \\n CREATE FIELDS ( key\_field char1 char2 num1 num2 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid1' \\n key\_field = 1 \\n char1 = 'aaa' \\n char2 = 'bbb' \\n num1 = 11 \\n num2 = 111 ) ) \\n REPORTED rep\_early \\n FAILED f\_early. \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSE OF demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m \\n FAILED f\_late \\n REPORTED rep\_late. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write( |sy-subrc after COMMIT ENTITIES: \\{ sy-subrc \\}| ). \\n out->write( \`Issue in the save sequence.\` ). \\n ELSE. \\n out->write( |sy-subrc after COMMIT ENTITIES: \\{ sy-subrc \\}| ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n "If there are entries, displaying early and late \\n "FAILED and REPORTED responses \\n display\_responses( ). \\n\\ \\n "Displaying database table entries after modify request \\n select\_from\_dbtab( ). \\n\\ \\n out->line( ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`----- Failure in RAP interaction phase \` && \\n \`-----\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m \\n CREATE FIELDS ( key\_field char1 char2 num1 num2 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid2' "instance to fail \\n key\_field = 1 \\n char1 = 'yyy' \\n char2 = 'zzz' \\n num1 = 12 \\n num2 = 345 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid3' \\n key\_field = 10 \\n char1 = 'ccc' \\n char2 = 'ddd' \\n num1 = 100 \\n num2 = 1000 ) ) \\n REPORTED rep\_early \\n FAILED f\_early. \\n\\ \\n "Demonstrating that the failed instance is not available \\n "in the transactional buffer. The read instance is from \\n "the database. \\n DATA(key) = 1. \\n\\ \\n READ ENTITY demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m \\n ALL FIELDS WITH VALUE #( \\n ( key\_field = key ) ) \\n RESULT DATA(res1). \\n\\ \\n IF res1 IS INITIAL. \\n out->write( \`Read result is empty for key field with value \` \\n && key && \`.\` ). \\n ELSE. \\n out->write( res1 ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSE OF demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m \\n FAILED f\_late \\n REPORTED rep\_late. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write( |sy-subrc after COMMIT ENTITIES: \\{ sy-subrc \\}| ). \\n out->write( \`Issue in the save sequence.\` ). \\n ELSE. \\n out->write( |sy-subrc after COMMIT ENTITIES: \\{ sy-subrc \\}| ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n "If there are entries, displaying early and late \\n "FAILED and REPORTED responses \\n display\_responses( ). \\n\\ \\n "Displaying database table entries after modify request \\n select\_from\_dbtab( ). \\n\\ \\n out->line( ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`----- Failure in early save phase \` && \\n \`(sy-subcr = 4 after committing) -----\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m \\n CREATE FIELDS ( key\_field char1 char2 num1 num2 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid4' \\n key\_field = 2 \\n char1 = 'eee' \\n char2 = 'fff' \\n num1 = 22 \\n num2 = 222 ) ) \\n REPORTED rep\_early \\n FAILED f\_early. \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSE OF demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m \\n FAILED f\_late \\n REPORTED rep\_late. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write( |sy-subrc after COMMIT ENTITIES: \\{ sy-subrc \\}| ). \\n out->write( \`Issue in the save sequence.\` ). \\n\\ \\n "Demonstrating that the RAP BO instance with the key \\n "is still available in the transactional buffer. \\n key = 2. \\n\\ \\n READ ENTITY demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m \\n ALL FIELDS WITH VALUE #( \\n ( key\_field = key ) ) \\n RESULT DATA(res2). \\n\\ \\n IF res2 IS INITIAL. \\n out->write( \`Read result is empty for key field with value \` \\n && key && \`.\` ). \\n ELSE. \\n out->write( res2 ). \\n\\ \\n "Correcting failed entry \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m \\n UPDATE FIELDS ( num2 ) WITH VALUE #( \\n ( key\_field = 2 \\n num2 = 2222 ) ). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n ELSE. \\n out->write( |sy-subrc after COMMIT ENTITIES: \\{ sy-subrc \\}| ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n "If there are entries, displaying early and late \\n "FAILED and REPORTED responses \\n display\_responses( ). \\n\\ \\n "Displaying database table entries after modify request \\n select\_from\_dbtab( ). \\n\\ \\n out->line( ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`----- Failure in late save phase \` && \\n \`(sy-subcr = 8 after committing) -----\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m \\n CREATE FIELDS ( key\_field char1 char2 num1 num2 ) WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid5' \\n key\_field = 3 \\n char1 = 'ggg' \\n char2 = 'hhh' \\n num1 = 33 \\n num2 = 333 ) ) \\n REPORTED rep\_early \\n FAILED f\_early. \\n\\ \\n "Note: The example is implemented in a way that a RAP BO \\n "cannot be saved if particular values are present in \\n "particular fields. \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSE OF demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m \\n FAILED f\_late \\n REPORTED rep\_late. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write( |sy-subrc after COMMIT ENTITIES: \\{ sy-subrc \\}| ). \\n out->write( \`Issue in the save sequence.\` ). \\n\\ \\n key = 3. \\n\\ \\n "Demonstrating that there is no RAP BO instance in the \\n "transactional buffer with the key used for the create \\n "operation above. \\n READ ENTITY demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m \\n ALL FIELDS WITH VALUE #( \\n ( key\_field = key ) ) \\n RESULT DATA(res3). \\n\\ \\n IF res3 IS INITIAL. \\n out->write( \`Read result is empty for key field with value \` \\n && key && \`.\` ). \\n ELSE. \\n out->write( res3 ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n ELSE. \\n out->write( |sy-subrc after COMMIT ENTITIES: \\{ sy-subrc \\}| ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n "If there are entries, displaying early and late \\n "FAILED and REPORTED responses \\n display\_responses( ). \\n\\ \\n "Displaying database table entries after modify request \\n select\_from\_dbtab( ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`----- RAP BO consumer to proceed after an issue in\` && \\n \` the late save phase and setting sy-subcr to 8 -----\` ). \\n\\ \\n "Without a rollback, the exception CX\_SADL\_DUMP\_APPL\_MODEL\_ERROR \\n "is raised. \\n ROLLBACK ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m \\n CREATE FIELDS ( key\_field char1 char2 num1 num2 ) WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid6' \\n key\_field = 4 \\n char1 = 'iii' \\n char2 = 'jjj' \\n num1 = 44 \\n num2 = 444 ) ) \\n REPORTED rep\_early \\n FAILED f\_early. \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSE OF demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m \\n FAILED f\_late \\n REPORTED rep\_late. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write( |sy-subrc after COMMIT ENTITIES: \\{ sy-subrc \\}| ). \\n out->write( \`Issue in the save sequence.\` ). \\n ELSE. \\n out->write( |sy-subrc after COMMIT ENTITIES: \\{ sy-subrc \\}| ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n "If there are entries, displaying early and late \\n "FAILED and REPORTED responses \\n display\_responses( ). \\n\\ \\n "Displaying database table entries after modify request \\n select\_from\_dbtab( ). \\n\\ \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD display\_responses. \\n\\ \\n IF f\_early IS NOT INITIAL. \\n out->write( \`Failed early: Key: \` && \\n f\_early-root\[ 1 \]-%key-key\_field && \\n \`, Fail cause: \` && \\n f\_early-root\[ 1 \]-%fail-cause ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n IF rep\_early IS NOT INITIAL. \\n out->write( \`Reported early: \` && \\n rep\_early-root\[ 1 \]-%msg->m\_severity && \\n \`, Key: \` && \\n rep\_early-root\[ 1 \]-%key-key\_field && \\n \`, Message: \` && \\n rep\_early-root\[ 1 \]-%msg->if\_message~get\_text( ) ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n IF f\_late IS NOT INITIAL. \\n out->write( \`Failed late: Key: \` && \\n f\_late-root\[ 1 \]-%key-key\_field && \\n \`, Fail cause: \` && \\n f\_late-root\[ 1 \]-%fail-cause ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n IF rep\_late IS NOT INITIAL. \\n out->write( \`Reported late: \` && \\n rep\_late-root\[ 1 \]-%msg->m\_severity && \\n \`, Key: \` && \\n rep\_late-root\[ 1 \]-%key-key\_field && \\n \`, Message: \` && \\n rep\_late-root\[ 1 \]-%msg->if\_message~get\_text( ) ). \\n ENDIF. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD select\_from\_dbtab. \\n SELECT \* FROM demo\_tab\_root\_7 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(db\_entries). \\n out->write( db\_entries ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD constructor. \\n super->constructor( ). \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_root\_7. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. \* Public class definition \\n"!

Demo for ABAP Keyword Documentation

\\ \\n"! \\n"!

**Disclaimer:**
\\ \\n"! This class represents a demonstration program of the ABAP Keyword \\n"! Documentation, primarily intended to provide a better explanation \\n"! and visualization of syntax. It is not intended for production use \\n"! and may use demo artifacts that are not released as APIs for use \\n"! in ABAP for Cloud Development.

\\ \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_saver\_failed DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n METHODS constructor. \\n\\ \\n PRIVATE SECTION. \\n DATA: \\n f\_early TYPE RESPONSE FOR FAILED EARLY demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m, \\n rep\_early TYPE RESPONSE FOR REPORTED EARLY demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m, \\n f\_late TYPE RESPONSE FOR FAILED LATE demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m, \\n rep\_late TYPE RESPONSE FOR REPORTED LATE demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m. \\n METHODS: \\n select\_from\_dbtab, \\n display\_responses. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_saver\_failed IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n out->begin\_section( \`Demonstrating cl\_abap\_behavior\_saver\_failed\` \\n )->line( \\n )->write( \`----- Successful saving \` && \\n \`(sy-subcr = 0 after committing) -----\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m \\n CREATE FIELDS ( key\_field char1 char2 num1 num2 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid1' \\n key\_field = 1 \\n char1 = 'aaa' \\n char2 = 'bbb' \\n num1 = 11 \\n num2 = 111 ) ) \\n REPORTED rep\_early \\n FAILED f\_early. \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSE OF demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m \\n FAILED f\_late \\n REPORTED rep\_late. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write( |sy-subrc after COMMIT ENTITIES: \\{ sy-subrc \\}| ). \\n out->write( \`Issue in the save sequence.\` ). \\n ELSE. \\n out->write( |sy-subrc after COMMIT ENTITIES: \\{ sy-subrc \\}| ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n "If there are entries, displaying early and late \\n "FAILED and REPORTED responses \\n display\_responses( ). \\n\\ \\n "Displaying database table entries after modify request \\n select\_from\_dbtab( ). \\n\\ \\n out->line( ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`----- Failure in RAP interaction phase \` && \\n \`-----\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m \\n CREATE FIELDS ( key\_field char1 char2 num1 num2 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid2' "instance to fail \\n key\_field = 1 \\n char1 = 'yyy' \\n char2 = 'zzz' \\n num1 = 12 \\n num2 = 345 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid3' \\n key\_field = 10 \\n char1 = 'ccc' \\n char2 = 'ddd' \\n num1 = 100 \\n num2 = 1000 ) ) \\n REPORTED rep\_early \\n FAILED f\_early. \\n\\ \\n "Demonstrating that the failed instance is not available \\n "in the transactional buffer. The read instance is from \\n "the database. \\n DATA(key) = 1. \\n\\ \\n READ ENTITY demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m \\n ALL FIELDS WITH VALUE #( \\n ( key\_field = key ) ) \\n RESULT DATA(res1). \\n\\ \\n IF res1 IS INITIAL. \\n out->write( \`Read result is empty for key field with value \` \\n && key && \`.\` ). \\n ELSE. \\n out->write( res1 ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSE OF demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m \\n FAILED f\_late \\n REPORTED rep\_late. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write( |sy-subrc after COMMIT ENTITIES: \\{ sy-subrc \\}| ). \\n out->write( \`Issue in the save sequence.\` ). \\n ELSE. \\n out->write( |sy-subrc after COMMIT ENTITIES: \\{ sy-subrc \\}| ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n "If there are entries, displaying early and late \\n "FAILED and REPORTED responses \\n display\_responses( ). \\n\\ \\n "Displaying database table entries after modify request \\n select\_from\_dbtab( ). \\n\\ \\n out->line( ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`----- Failure in early save phase \` && \\n \`(sy-subcr = 4 after committing) -----\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m \\n CREATE FIELDS ( key\_field char1 char2 num1 num2 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid4' \\n key\_field = 2 \\n char1 = 'eee' \\n char2 = 'fff' \\n num1 = 22 \\n num2 = 222 ) ) \\n REPORTED rep\_early \\n FAILED f\_early. \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSE OF demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m \\n FAILED f\_late \\n REPORTED rep\_late. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write( |sy-subrc after COMMIT ENTITIES: \\{ sy-subrc \\}| ). \\n out->write( \`Issue in the save sequence.\` ). \\n\\ \\n "Demonstrating that the RAP BO instance with the key \\n "is still available in the transactional buffer. \\n key = 2. \\n\\ \\n READ ENTITY demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m \\n ALL FIELDS WITH VALUE #( \\n ( key\_field = key ) ) \\n RESULT DATA(res2). \\n\\ \\n IF res2 IS INITIAL. \\n out->write( \`Read result is empty for key field with value \` \\n && key && \`.\` ). \\n ELSE. \\n out->write( res2 ). \\n\\ \\n "Correcting failed entry \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m \\n UPDATE FIELDS ( num2 ) WITH VALUE #( \\n ( key\_field = 2 \\n num2 = 2222 ) ). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n ELSE. \\n out->write( |sy-subrc after COMMIT ENTITIES: \\{ sy-subrc \\}| ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n "If there are entries, displaying early and late \\n "FAILED and REPORTED responses \\n display\_responses( ). \\n\\ \\n "Displaying database table entries after modify request \\n select\_from\_dbtab( ). \\n\\ \\n out->line( ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`----- Failure in late save phase \` && \\n \`(sy-subcr = 8 after committing) -----\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m \\n CREATE FIELDS ( key\_field char1 char2 num1 num2 ) WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid5' \\n key\_field = 3 \\n char1 = 'ggg' \\n char2 = 'hhh' \\n num1 = 33 \\n num2 = 333 ) ) \\n REPORTED rep\_early \\n FAILED f\_early. \\n\\ \\n "Note: The example is implemented in a way that a RAP BO \\n "cannot be saved if particular values are present in \\n "particular fields. \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSE OF demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m \\n FAILED f\_late \\n REPORTED rep\_late. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write( |sy-subrc after COMMIT ENTITIES: \\{ sy-subrc \\}| ). \\n out->write( \`Issue in the save sequence.\` ). \\n\\ \\n key = 3. \\n\\ \\n "Demonstrating that there is no RAP BO instance in the \\n "transactional buffer with the key used for the create \\n "operation above. \\n READ ENTITY demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m \\n ALL FIELDS WITH VALUE #( \\n ( key\_field = key ) ) \\n RESULT DATA(res3). \\n\\ \\n IF res3 IS INITIAL. \\n out->write( \`Read result is empty for key field with value \` \\n && key && \`.\` ). \\n ELSE. \\n out->write( res3 ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n ELSE. \\n out->write( |sy-subrc after COMMIT ENTITIES: \\{ sy-subrc \\}| ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n "If there are entries, displaying early and late \\n "FAILED and REPORTED responses \\n display\_responses( ). \\n\\ \\n "Displaying database table entries after modify request \\n select\_from\_dbtab( ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`----- RAP BO consumer to proceed after an issue in\` && \\n \` the late save phase and setting sy-subcr to 8 -----\` ). \\n\\ \\n "Without a rollback, the exception CX\_SADL\_DUMP\_APPL\_MODEL\_ERROR \\n "is raised. \\n ROLLBACK ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m \\n CREATE FIELDS ( key\_field char1 char2 num1 num2 ) WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid6' \\n key\_field = 4 \\n char1 = 'iii' \\n char2 = 'jjj' \\n num1 = 44 \\n num2 = 444 ) ) \\n REPORTED rep\_early \\n FAILED f\_early. \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSE OF demo\_save\_f\_unm\_s\_m \\n FAILED f\_late \\n REPORTED rep\_late. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write( |sy-subrc after COMMIT ENTITIES: \\{ sy-subrc \\}| ). \\n out->write( \`Issue in the save sequence.\` ). \\n ELSE. \\n out->write( |sy-subrc after COMMIT ENTITIES: \\{ sy-subrc \\}| ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n "If there are entries, displaying early and late \\n "FAILED and REPORTED responses \\n display\_responses( ). \\n\\ \\n "Displaying database table entries after modify request \\n select\_from\_dbtab( ). \\n\\ \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD display\_responses. \\n\\ \\n IF f\_early IS NOT INITIAL. \\n out->write( \`Failed early: Key: \` && \\n f\_early-root\[ 1 \]-%key-key\_field && \\n \`, Fail cause: \` && \\n f\_early-root\[ 1 \]-%fail-cause ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n IF rep\_early IS NOT INITIAL. \\n out->write( \`Reported early: \` && \\n rep\_early-root\[ 1 \]-%msg->m\_severity && \\n \`, Key: \` && \\n rep\_early-root\[ 1 \]-%key-key\_field && \\n \`, Message: \` && \\n rep\_early-root\[ 1 \]-%msg->if\_message~get\_text( ) ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n IF f\_late IS NOT INITIAL. \\n out->write( \`Failed late: Key: \` && \\n f\_late-root\[ 1 \]-%key-key\_field && \\n \`, Fail cause: \` && \\n f\_late-root\[ 1 \]-%fail-cause ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n IF rep\_late IS NOT INITIAL. \\n out->write( \`Reported late: \` && \\n rep\_late-root\[ 1 \]-%msg->m\_severity && \\n \`, Key: \` && \\n rep\_late-root\[ 1 \]-%key-key\_field && \\n \`, Message: \` && \\n rep\_late-root\[ 1 \]-%msg->if\_message~get\_text( ) ). \\n ENDIF. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD select\_from\_dbtab. \\n SELECT \* FROM demo\_tab\_root\_7 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(db\_entries). \\n out->write( db\_entries ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD constructor. \\n super->constructor( ). \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_root\_7. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. abenabap.html abenabap\_rap.html abenabap\_for\_rap\_bos.html abenabap\_provide\_rap\_bos.html abenabap\_behavior\_pools.html abenabp\_saver\_class.html abenabp\_cl\_abap\_beh\_saver\_failed.html