---
title: "Demo for ABAP Keyword Documentation"
description: |
  n'! n'! Disclaimer:  n'! This class represents a demonstration program of the ABAP Keyword n'! Documentation, primarily intended to provide a better explanation n'! and visualization of syntax. It is not intended for production use n'! and may use demo artifacts that are not rel
library: "cloud"
libraryName: "ABAP Cloud"
category: "general"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_cp_index_htm/CLOUD/en-US/ABENDERIVED_TYPES_TKY_ABEXA.htm"
abapFile: "ABENDERIVED_TYPES_TKY_ABEXA.html"
keywords: ["select", "update", "delete", "do", "while", "if", "case", "method", "class", "data", "types", "ABENDERIVED", "TYPES", "TKY", "ABEXA"]
---

This example demonstrates the use of `%tky` in two scenarios:

**Data models**

**Non-draft scenario**: The CDS data model consists of the root entity `DEMO_MANAGED_ROOT_4` and its child entity `DEMO_MANAGED_CHILD_4`. The child entity is not used in the example.

Root entity:

**Draft scenario**: The CDS data model consists of the root entity `DEMO_MANAGED_DRAFT_ROOT` and its child entity `DEMO_MANAGED_DRAFT_CHILD`. The child entity is not used in the example.

Root entity:

**Behavior definition**

**Non-draft scenario**: The [RAP behavior definition](ABENCDS_BEHAVIOR_DEFINITION_GLOSRY.html)\\ `DEMO_MANAGED_ROOT_4` is defined in [RAP BDL](ABENCDS_BDL_GLOSRY.html) as follows:

**Draft scenario**: The BDEF is `DEMO_MANAGED_DRAFT_ROOT`. It is defined as follows:

**Behavior implementation**

**Access with ABAP using EML**

There are two scenarios covered to demonstrate the use of `%tky`:

-   **Non-draft scenario**: For the above RAP behavior definition, one [ABP](ABENBEHAVIOR_POOL_GLOSRY.html) is created. The global class of the behavior pool is `BP_DEMO_MANAGED_ROOT_4`. The actual behavior implementation takes place in local classes that are defined and implemented in the `BP_DEMO_MANAGED_ROOT_4========CCIMP` of the behavior pool. In this case, the behavior pool does not include any implementations that are relevant for the example.
-   **Draft scenario**: The global class of the behavior pool is `BP_DEMO_MANAGED_DRAFT_ROOT`. The actual implementation is here: `BP_DEMO_MANAGED_DRAFT_ROOT====CCIMP`. In this case, the behavior pool does not include any implementations that are relevant for the example.

-   An ABAP EML modify request covers a create operation to create new [RAP BO instances](ABENRAP_BO_INSTANCE_GLOSRY.html) and an update operation on those newly created instances. In the RAP create operation, the key is specified with different options. The update operation on the newly created instances updates a specific field. The instances are referred to using `%tky` and others to demonstrate that `%tky` can also be used to refer to the keys in non-draft scenarios. See the topic [Using Keys and Identifying RAP BO Instances in a Nutshell](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_KEYS_IDENTIFIERS.html) for more information. With a [`COMMIT ENTITIES`](ABAPCOMMIT_ENTITIES.html) statement, the instances are saved to the database. The output shows the database table entries as well as the failed messages that are returned for those instances for which an update operation cannot be executed.

-   **RAP operations on active instances**: An ABAP EML modify request covers a create operation to create new, active [RAP BO instances](ABENRAP_BO_INSTANCE_GLOSRY.html) and an update operation on those newly created instances. The update operation on the newly created instances update a specific field. The instances are referred to using `%tky` to demonstrate that `%tky` can also be used to refer to the keys in draft scenarios while disabling the included `%is_draft` component to execute RAP operations on active instances. A `COMMIT ENTITIES` statement saves the instances to the database. The output shows those entries.
-   **RAP operations on draft instances**: The previously created active instances are put to the draft table using the [draft action](ABENBDL_DRAFT_ACTION.html)\\ `edit` and the `COMMIT ENTITIES` statement that follows. Then, an update operation on those draft instances is carried out by referring to the keys with `%tky`. The draft indicator is enabled. The following `COMMIT ENTITIES` statement save the updated values in the draft table. With the draft action `activate` and a `COMMIT ENTITIES` statement, the updates done on the draft table get saved to the database. The output shows different tables to demonstrate the effect on the draft and database tables. The first two tables show the state of the draft and database table before the activation, i. e. the update on the draft instances is shown. At this stage, there have not been any changes to the database table. The next two tables show the state of the draft and database tables after the activation. The database table now includes the former draft instances that have been persisted to the database. The draft table is empty.

1.  a [managed](ABENBDL_IMPL_TYPE.html)\\ [RAP BO](ABENRAP_BO_GLOSRY.html) in a non-draft scenario
2.  a managed RAP BO in a [draft](ABENBDL_WITH_DRAFT.html) scenario

1.  **Non-draft scenario**

-   An ABAP EML modify request covers a create operation to create new [RAP BO instances](ABENRAP_BO_INSTANCE_GLOSRY.html) and an update operation on those newly created instances. In the RAP create operation, the key is specified with different options. The update operation on the newly created instances updates a specific field. The instances are referred to using `%tky` and others to demonstrate that `%tky` can also be used to refer to the keys in non-draft scenarios. See the topic [Using Keys and Identifying RAP BO Instances in a Nutshell](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_KEYS_IDENTIFIERS.html) for more information. With a [`COMMIT ENTITIES`](ABAPCOMMIT_ENTITIES.html) statement, the instances are saved to the database. The output shows the database table entries as well as the failed messages that are returned for those instances for which an update operation cannot be executed.

3.  **Draft scenario**
4.  ABAP EML modify requests are covered to execute RAP operations on active and draft instances

-   **RAP operations on active instances**: An ABAP EML modify request covers a create operation to create new, active [RAP BO instances](ABENRAP_BO_INSTANCE_GLOSRY.html) and an update operation on those newly created instances. The update operation on the newly created instances update a specific field. The instances are referred to using `%tky` to demonstrate that `%tky` can also be used to refer to the keys in draft scenarios while disabling the included `%is_draft` component to execute RAP operations on active instances. A `COMMIT ENTITIES` statement saves the instances to the database. The output shows those entries.
-   **RAP operations on draft instances**: The previously created active instances are put to the draft table using the [draft action](ABENBDL_DRAFT_ACTION.html)\\ `edit` and the `COMMIT ENTITIES` statement that follows. Then, an update operation on those draft instances is carried out by referring to the keys with `%tky`. The draft indicator is enabled. The following `COMMIT ENTITIES` statement save the updated values in the draft table. With the draft action `activate` and a `COMMIT ENTITIES` statement, the updates done on the draft table get saved to the database. The output shows different tables to demonstrate the effect on the draft and database tables. The first two tables show the state of the draft and database table before the activation, i. e. the update on the draft instances is shown. At this stage, there have not been any changes to the database table. The next two tables show the state of the draft and database tables after the activation. The database table now includes the former draft instances that have been persisted to the database. The draft table is empty.

@AccessControl.authorizationCheck: #NOT\_REQUIRED\\ndefine root view entity demo\_managed\_root\_4\\n as select from demo\_tab\_root\_3\\n composition \[1..\*\] of demo\_managed\_child\_4 as \_child\\n \\{\\n key key\_field,\\n field1,\\n field2,\\n field3,\\n field4,\\n \_child\\n \\}\\n @AccessControl.authorizationCheck: #NOT\_REQUIRED\\n@EndUserText.label: 'CDS view entity, RAP unmanaged, draft'\\ndefine root view entity DEMO\_MANAGED\_DRAFT\_ROOT\\n as select from demo\_tab\_root\_4\\n composition \[1..\*\] of DEMO\_MANAGED\_DRAFT\_CHILD as \_child\\n \\{\\n key key\_field,\\n field1,\\n field2,\\n field3,\\n field4,\\n @Semantics.systemDateTime.lastChangedAt: true\\n crea\_date\_time,\\n @Semantics.systemDateTime.localInstanceLastChangedAt: true\\n lchg\_date\_time,\\n \_child\\n \\}\\n managed implementation in class bp\_demo\_managed\_root\_4 unique;\\nstrict(2);\\n\\ndefine behavior for demo\_managed\_root\_4\\npersistent table DEMO\_TAB\_ROOT\_3\\nlock master\\nauthorization master ( none )\\n\\n\\{\\n create;\\n update;\\n delete;\\n association \_child \\{ create; \\}\\n field(readonly:update) key\_field;\\n\\}\\n\\ndefine behavior for demo\_managed\_child\_4 alias \_child\\npersistent table DEMO\_TAB\_CHILD\_3\\nlock dependent by \_parent\\nauthorization dependent by \_parent\\n\\n\\{\\n update;\\n delete;\\n field ( readonly ) key\_field;\\n association \_parent;\\n field(readonly:update) key\_field\_child;\\n\\} managed implementation in class bp\_demo\_managed\_draft\_root unique;\\nstrict(2);\\nwith draft;\\n\\ndefine behavior for DEMO\_MANAGED\_DRAFT\_ROOT\\npersistent table demo\_tab\_root\_4\\ndraft table demo\_tab\_dr\_ro\\nlock master\\ntotal etag crea\_date\_time\\netag master lchg\_date\_time\\nauthorization master ( none )\\n\\{\\n create;\\n update;\\n delete;\\n association \_child \\{ create; with draft; \\}\\n draft action Edit;\\n draft action Activate optimized;\\n draft action Discard;\\n draft action Resume;\\n draft determine action Prepare;\\n field ( readonly : update ) key\_field;\\n field ( readonly ) crea\_date\_time, lchg\_date\_time;\\n\\}\\n\\ndefine behavior for DEMO\_MANAGED\_DRAFT\_CHILD\\npersistent table demo\_tab\_child\_4\\ndraft table demo\_tab\_dr\_ch\\nlock dependent by \_parent\\nauthorization dependent by \_parent\\n\\{\\n update;\\n delete;\\n field ( readonly ) key\_field;\\n field ( readonly : update ) key\_field\_child;\\n association \_parent \\{ with draft; \\}\\n\\} \* Public class definition \\n"!

Demo for ABAP Keyword Documentation

\\ \\n"! \\n"!

**Disclaimer:**
\\ \\n"! This class represents a demonstration program of the ABAP Keyword \\n"! Documentation, primarily intended to provide a better explanation \\n"! and visualization of syntax. It is not intended for production use \\n"! and may use demo artifacts that are not released as APIs for use \\n"! in ABAP for Cloud Development.

\\ \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_drvd\_types\_tky DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n METHODS constructor. \\n\\ \\n PRIVATE SECTION. \\n DATA: \\n failed\_info TYPE RESPONSE FOR FAILED demo\_managed\_root\_4. \\n METHODS: \\n initialize\_dbtabs, \\n display\_failed. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_drvd\_types\_tky IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n out->begin\_section( \`Demo for BDEF derived type component: \` && \\n \`%tky\` ). \\n\\ \\n out->line( \\n )->next\_section( \`1) Non-draft scenario\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_4 \\n CREATE FIELDS ( key\_field field1 field2 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid1' %key-key\_field = 1 \\n field1 = 'aaa' field2 = 'bbb' field3 = 10 field4 = 11 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid2' %key = VALUE #( key\_field = 2 ) \\n field1 = 'ccc' field2 = 'ddd' field3 = 20 field4 = 21 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid3' key\_field = 3 \\n field1 = 'eee' field2 = 'fff' field3 = 30 field4 = 31 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid4' %data-%key-key\_field = 4 \\n field1 = 'ggg' field2 = 'hhh' field3 = 40 field4 = 41 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid5' %data-key\_field = 5 \\n field1 = 'iii' field2 = 'jjj' field3 = 50 field4 = 51 ) ) \\n UPDATE FIELDS ( field2 ) WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %tky-%key-key\_field = 1 field2 = 'up1' ) \\n ( %tky-key\_field = 2 field2 = 'up2' ) \\n ( %tky-%pky-%key-key\_field = 3 field2 = 'up3' ) \\n ( %tky-%pky-key\_field = 4 field2 = 'up4' ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 5 field2 = 'up5' ) \\n ( key\_field = 6 field2 = 'up6' ) \\n ( %pky-key\_field = 7 field2 = 'up7' ) \\n ( %pky-%key-key\_field = 8 field2 = 'up8' ) \\n ( %data-%key-key\_field = 9 field2 = 'up9' ) \\n ( %data-key\_field = 10 field2 = 'up10' ) ) \\n MAPPED FINAL(mapped) \\n FAILED failed\_info \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, field3, field4 \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_3 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(root\_tab). \\n\\ \\n display\_failed( ). \\n\\ \\n out->write\_html( \\n \`**Database table entries \` && \\n \`after the operations**\` \\n )->write( root\_tab ). \\n\\ \\n out->line( \\n )->next\_section( \`2) Draft scenario\` \\n )->write\_html( \\n \`**a) RAP operations on active RAP BO\` && \\n \` instances with a draft BO (%is\_draft is disabled)**\` ). \\n\\ \\n "Draft indicator %is\_draft is disabled. \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_draft\_root \\n CREATE FIELDS ( key\_field field1 field2 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid1' %is\_draft = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-off \\n key\_field = 4 \\n field1 = 'aaa' field2 = 'bbb' \\n field3 = 10 field4 = 11 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid2' %is\_draft = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-off \\n key\_field = 5 \\n field1 = 'ccc' field2 = 'ddd' \\n field3 = 20 field4 = 21 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid3' %is\_draft = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-off \\n key\_field = 6 \\n field1 = 'eee' field2 = 'fff' \\n field3 = 30 field4 = 31 ) ) \\n "Note: For demo purposes, the key is referred to in \\n "diverse ways. All options have the same effect. \\n UPDATE FIELDS ( field2 ) WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %tky = VALUE #( %is\_draft = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-off \\n %key-key\_field = 4 ) \\n field2 = 'up1' ) \\n ( %tky = VALUE #( %is\_draft = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-off \\n key\_field = 5 ) \\n field2 = 'up2' ) \\n ( %tky = VALUE #( %is\_draft = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-off \\n %pky-%key-key\_field = 6 ) \\n field2 = 'up3' ) \\n ) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed\_nodraft) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported\_nodraft) \\n MAPPED FINAL(mapped\_nodraft). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, \\n field3, field4, crea\_date\_time, \\n lchg\_date\_time \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_4 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(db\_entries). \\n\\ \\n out->write\_html( \`**Database table entries after\` && \\n \` RAP operations**\` \\n )->write( data = db\_entries ). \\n\\ \\n "Get active instances in draft table. \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_draft\_root \\n EXECUTE Edit AUTO FILL CID WITH \\n VALUE #( ( %key-key\_field = 4 \\n %param-preserve\_changes = abap\_false ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 5 \\n %param-preserve\_changes = abap\_false ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 6 \\n %param-preserve\_changes = abap\_false ) ) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported\_edit) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed\_edit) \\n MAPPED FINAL(mapped\_edit). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n "Update draft instances. Draft indicator %is\_draft is enabled. \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_draft\_root \\n UPDATE FIELDS ( field2 ) WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %tky = VALUE #( %is\_draft = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %key-key\_field = 4 ) \\n field2 = 'up\_draft1' ) \\n ( %tky = VALUE #( %is\_draft = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n key\_field = 5 ) \\n field2 = 'up\_draft2' ) \\n ( %tky = VALUE #( %is\_draft = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %pky-%key-key\_field = 6 ) \\n field2 = 'up\_draft3' ) ) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed\_draft\_up) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported\_draft\_up) \\n MAPPED FINAL(mapped\_draft\_up). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, \\n field3, field4, crea\_date\_time, \\n lchg\_date\_time, draftentitycreationdatetime, \\n draftentitylastchangedatetime \\n FROM demo\_tab\_dr\_ro \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(draft\_parent\_before\_act). \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, \\n field3, field4, crea\_date\_time, \\n lchg\_date\_time \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_4 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(db\_tab\_root\_before\_act). \\n\\ \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_draft\_root \\n EXECUTE Activate AUTO FILL CID WITH \\n VALUE #( ( %key-key\_field = 4 ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 5 ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 6 ) ) \\n MAPPED FINAL(mapped\_act) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed\_act) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported\_act). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, \\n field3, field4, crea\_date\_time, \\n lchg\_date\_time, draftentitycreationdatetime, \\n draftentitylastchangedatetime \\n FROM demo\_tab\_dr\_ro \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(draft\_parent\_afer\_act). \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, \\n field3, field4, crea\_date\_time, \\n lchg\_date\_time \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_4 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(db\_tab\_root\_after\_act). \\n\\ \\n out->write\_html( \`**b) RAP operations on draft instances\` && \\n \` (%is\_draft is enabled)**\` \\n )->write\_doc( cl\_demo\_output\_helper=>get\_infobox\_html( \\n \`The following tables demonstrate the effect on the draft and \` && \\n \`database tables. \` && \\n \`The first two tables show the state \` && \\n \`of the draft and database table before the activation, i. e. \` && \\n \`new draft instances are created and, thus, available in the \` && \\n \`draft table. The data fields are changed due to the \` && \\n \`implementation in the ABAP behavior pool.\` && \\n \` There have not been any changes to the database table.\` && \\n \` The next two tables show the state of the draft and database\` && \\n \` tables after the activation.\` && \\n \` The database table now includes the former draft instances\` && \\n \` that have been persisted to the database while the draft table \` && \\n \`is empty.\` ) \\n )->write( data = draft\_parent\_before\_act exclude = \`client\` \\n name = 'Draft table before activation' \\n )->write( data = db\_tab\_root\_before\_act exclude = \`client\` \\n name = 'Database table before activation' \\n )->write( data = draft\_parent\_afer\_act exclude = \`client\` \\n name = 'Draft table after activation' \\n )->write( data = db\_tab\_root\_after\_act exclude = \`client\` \\n name = 'Database table after activation' \\n ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD display\_failed. \\n IF failed\_info IS NOT INITIAL. \\n out->write\_doc( \`FAILED response:\` \\n )->write( failed\_info ). \\n ENDIF. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD initialize\_dbtabs. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_root\_3. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_child\_3. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_root\_4. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_child\_4. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_dr\_ro. "#EC CI\_NOWHERE \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_dr\_ch. "#EC CI\_NOWHERE \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD constructor. \\n super->constructor( ). \\n initialize\_dbtabs( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. \* Public class definition \\n"!

Demo for ABAP Keyword Documentation

\\ \\n"! \\n"!

**Disclaimer:**
\\ \\n"! This class represents a demonstration program of the ABAP Keyword \\n"! Documentation, primarily intended to provide a better explanation \\n"! and visualization of syntax. It is not intended for production use \\n"! and may use demo artifacts that are not released as APIs for use \\n"! in ABAP for Cloud Development.

\\ \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_drvd\_types\_tky DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n METHODS constructor. \\n\\ \\n PRIVATE SECTION. \\n DATA: \\n failed\_info TYPE RESPONSE FOR FAILED demo\_managed\_root\_4. \\n METHODS: \\n initialize\_dbtabs, \\n display\_failed. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_drvd\_types\_tky IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n out->begin\_section( \`Demo for BDEF derived type component: \` && \\n \`%tky\` ). \\n\\ \\n out->line( \\n )->next\_section( \`1) Non-draft scenario\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_4 \\n CREATE FIELDS ( key\_field field1 field2 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid1' %key-key\_field = 1 \\n field1 = 'aaa' field2 = 'bbb' field3 = 10 field4 = 11 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid2' %key = VALUE #( key\_field = 2 ) \\n field1 = 'ccc' field2 = 'ddd' field3 = 20 field4 = 21 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid3' key\_field = 3 \\n field1 = 'eee' field2 = 'fff' field3 = 30 field4 = 31 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid4' %data-%key-key\_field = 4 \\n field1 = 'ggg' field2 = 'hhh' field3 = 40 field4 = 41 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid5' %data-key\_field = 5 \\n field1 = 'iii' field2 = 'jjj' field3 = 50 field4 = 51 ) ) \\n UPDATE FIELDS ( field2 ) WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %tky-%key-key\_field = 1 field2 = 'up1' ) \\n ( %tky-key\_field = 2 field2 = 'up2' ) \\n ( %tky-%pky-%key-key\_field = 3 field2 = 'up3' ) \\n ( %tky-%pky-key\_field = 4 field2 = 'up4' ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 5 field2 = 'up5' ) \\n ( key\_field = 6 field2 = 'up6' ) \\n ( %pky-key\_field = 7 field2 = 'up7' ) \\n ( %pky-%key-key\_field = 8 field2 = 'up8' ) \\n ( %data-%key-key\_field = 9 field2 = 'up9' ) \\n ( %data-key\_field = 10 field2 = 'up10' ) ) \\n MAPPED FINAL(mapped) \\n FAILED failed\_info \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, field3, field4 \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_3 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(root\_tab). \\n\\ \\n display\_failed( ). \\n\\ \\n out->write\_html( \\n \`**Database table entries \` && \\n \`after the operations**\` \\n )->write( root\_tab ). \\n\\ \\n out->line( \\n )->next\_section( \`2) Draft scenario\` \\n )->write\_html( \\n \`**a) RAP operations on active RAP BO\` && \\n \` instances with a draft BO (%is\_draft is disabled)**\` ). \\n\\ \\n "Draft indicator %is\_draft is disabled. \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_draft\_root \\n CREATE FIELDS ( key\_field field1 field2 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid1' %is\_draft = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-off \\n key\_field = 4 \\n field1 = 'aaa' field2 = 'bbb' \\n field3 = 10 field4 = 11 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid2' %is\_draft = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-off \\n key\_field = 5 \\n field1 = 'ccc' field2 = 'ddd' \\n field3 = 20 field4 = 21 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid3' %is\_draft = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-off \\n key\_field = 6 \\n field1 = 'eee' field2 = 'fff' \\n field3 = 30 field4 = 31 ) ) \\n "Note: For demo purposes, the key is referred to in \\n "diverse ways. All options have the same effect. \\n UPDATE FIELDS ( field2 ) WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %tky = VALUE #( %is\_draft = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-off \\n %key-key\_field = 4 ) \\n field2 = 'up1' ) \\n ( %tky = VALUE #( %is\_draft = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-off \\n key\_field = 5 ) \\n field2 = 'up2' ) \\n ( %tky = VALUE #( %is\_draft = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-off \\n %pky-%key-key\_field = 6 ) \\n field2 = 'up3' ) \\n ) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed\_nodraft) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported\_nodraft) \\n MAPPED FINAL(mapped\_nodraft). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, \\n field3, field4, crea\_date\_time, \\n lchg\_date\_time \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_4 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(db\_entries). \\n\\ \\n out->write\_html( \`**Database table entries after\` && \\n \` RAP operations**\` \\n )->write( data = db\_entries ). \\n\\ \\n "Get active instances in draft table. \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_draft\_root \\n EXECUTE Edit AUTO FILL CID WITH \\n VALUE #( ( %key-key\_field = 4 \\n %param-preserve\_changes = abap\_false ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 5 \\n %param-preserve\_changes = abap\_false ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 6 \\n %param-preserve\_changes = abap\_false ) ) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported\_edit) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed\_edit) \\n MAPPED FINAL(mapped\_edit). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n "Update draft instances. Draft indicator %is\_draft is enabled. \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_draft\_root \\n UPDATE FIELDS ( field2 ) WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %tky = VALUE #( %is\_draft = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %key-key\_field = 4 ) \\n field2 = 'up\_draft1' ) \\n ( %tky = VALUE #( %is\_draft = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n key\_field = 5 ) \\n field2 = 'up\_draft2' ) \\n ( %tky = VALUE #( %is\_draft = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n %pky-%key-key\_field = 6 ) \\n field2 = 'up\_draft3' ) ) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed\_draft\_up) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported\_draft\_up) \\n MAPPED FINAL(mapped\_draft\_up). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, \\n field3, field4, crea\_date\_time, \\n lchg\_date\_time, draftentitycreationdatetime, \\n draftentitylastchangedatetime \\n FROM demo\_tab\_dr\_ro \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(draft\_parent\_before\_act). \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, \\n field3, field4, crea\_date\_time, \\n lchg\_date\_time \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_4 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(db\_tab\_root\_before\_act). \\n\\ \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_draft\_root \\n EXECUTE Activate AUTO FILL CID WITH \\n VALUE #( ( %key-key\_field = 4 ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 5 ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 6 ) ) \\n MAPPED FINAL(mapped\_act) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed\_act) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported\_act). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, \\n field3, field4, crea\_date\_time, \\n lchg\_date\_time, draftentitycreationdatetime, \\n draftentitylastchangedatetime \\n FROM demo\_tab\_dr\_ro \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(draft\_parent\_afer\_act). \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, \\n field3, field4, crea\_date\_time, \\n lchg\_date\_time \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_4 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(db\_tab\_root\_after\_act). \\n\\ \\n out->write\_html( \`**b) RAP operations on draft instances\` && \\n \` (%is\_draft is enabled)**\` \\n )->write\_doc( cl\_demo\_output\_helper=>get\_infobox\_html( \\n \`The following tables demonstrate the effect on the draft and \` && \\n \`database tables. \` && \\n \`The first two tables show the state \` && \\n \`of the draft and database table before the activation, i. e. \` && \\n \`new draft instances are created and, thus, available in the \` && \\n \`draft table. The data fields are changed due to the \` && \\n \`implementation in the ABAP behavior pool.\` && \\n \` There have not been any changes to the database table.\` && \\n \` The next two tables show the state of the draft and database\` && \\n \` tables after the activation.\` && \\n \` The database table now includes the former draft instances\` && \\n \` that have been persisted to the database while the draft table \` && \\n \`is empty.\` ) \\n )->write( data = draft\_parent\_before\_act exclude = \`client\` \\n name = 'Draft table before activation' \\n )->write( data = db\_tab\_root\_before\_act exclude = \`client\` \\n name = 'Database table before activation' \\n )->write( data = draft\_parent\_afer\_act exclude = \`client\` \\n name = 'Draft table after activation' \\n )->write( data = db\_tab\_root\_after\_act exclude = \`client\` \\n name = 'Database table after activation' \\n ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD display\_failed. \\n IF failed\_info IS NOT INITIAL. \\n out->write\_doc( \`FAILED response:\` \\n )->write( failed\_info ). \\n ENDIF. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD initialize\_dbtabs. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_root\_3. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_child\_3. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_root\_4. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_child\_4. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_dr\_ro. "#EC CI\_NOWHERE \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_dr\_ch. "#EC CI\_NOWHERE \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD constructor. \\n super->constructor( ). \\n initialize\_dbtabs( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. abenabap.html abenabap\_rap.html abenabap\_for\_rap\_bos.html abenrpm\_derived\_types.html abapderived\_types\_comp.html abenderived\_types\_abexas.html