---
title: "ABENBDL_FIELD_INTERFACE"
description: |
  ABENBDL_FIELD_INTERFACE - ABAP Cloud language reference documentation
library: "cloud"
libraryName: "ABAP Cloud"
category: "oop"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_cp_index_htm/CLOUD/en-US/ABENBDL_FIELD_INTERFACE.htm"
abapFile: "ABENBDL_FIELD_INTERFACE.html"
keywords: ["select", "update", "delete", "do", "if", "class", "data", "types", "ABENBDL", "FIELD", "INTERFACE"]
---

`... field(readonly) Field1, Field2, ...; | field(mandatory:create) Field1, Field2, ...; | field(readonly:update) Field1, Field2, ...; | field(suppress) Field1, Field2, ...;`

An interface BDEF automatically and implicitly inherits all [RAP field characteristics](ABENRAP_FIELD_CHAR_GLOSRY.html) of its underlying [base BO](ABENRAP_PROJECTED_BO_GLOSRY.html) and it can add further field attributes. The field attributes added in the interface layer are added to the field attributes from the base layer, if any. Therefore, the field attributes from the base layer and from the interface layer must not contradict each other. Examples:

The following field characteristics are available in an interface BDEF:

The topic [RAP - `FieldCharacteristics`](ABENBDL_FIELD_CHAR.html) describes how they work.

In a managed or unmanaged RAP BO, multiple field characteristics can be combined. In an interface BDEF, there is only one valid combination: `mandatory:create, readonly:update`.

Commas can be used to classify multiple fields in the same way. Example: `field(readonly) Field1, Field2, Field3;`.

The following managed RAP behavior definition defines internal numbering for the primary key field and it defines field `INT_FIELD1` as `mandatory`.

The following interface BDEF automatically inherits all field attributes from the base BDEF and specifies additional static field attributes:

The ABAP class `CL_DEMO_RAP_INTERFACE` uses [EML](ABENEML_GLOSRY.html) to access to [RAP business object](ABENRAP_BO_GLOSRY.html) and performs the following steps:

Code Snippet:

Result: values for the primary key field are generated automatically.

The field `INT_FIELD2` is excluded from the BDEF derived types. This can be seen in the following screenshot:

-   If the base BDEF defines a field as `mandatory:create`, the interface can add the field attribute `readonly:update` to the same field.
-   If the base BDEF defines a field as `mandatory`, the interface must not define the same field as `readonly`. This leads to a syntax check error.

-   `readonly`
-   `mandatory:create`
-   `readonly:update`
-   `suppress`

-   It creates three entity instances by specifying values for the two mandatory fields `INT_FIELD1` and `CHAR_FIELD1`. However, no values for the primary key field are specified.
-   It commits the three new entity instances to the database.
-   Using the ABAP SQL `SELECT` statement, it displays the content of the underlying database table. It can be seen that the primary key field `KEY_FIELD` of each entity instance contains a value that was generated by means of managed [early numbering](ABENRAP_EARLY_NUMBERING_GLOSRY.html).

managed implementation in class bp\_demo\_cds\_interf unique;\\nstrict ( 2 );\\n\\ndefine behavior for DEMO\_CDS\_INTERF alias Root\\npersistent table demo\_dbtab\_field\\nlock master\\nauthorization master ( none )\\n\\n\\{\\n create;\\n update;\\n delete;\\n\\n field ( numbering : managed, readonly ) key\_field;\\n field ( mandatory ) int\_field1;\\n\\} interface;\\n\\ndefine behavior for DEMO\_CDS\_PV alias Root\\n\\{\\n use create;\\n use update;\\n use delete;\\n\\n field ( readonly : update, mandatory : create ) char\_field1;\\n field ( suppress ) int\_field2;\\n\\} MODIFY ENTITIES OF DEMO\_CDS\_PV \\n ENTITY Root \\n CREATE FIELDS ( char\_field1 int\_field1 ) WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = '1' char\_field1 = 'A' int\_field1 = 1 ) \\n ( %cid = '2' char\_field1 = 'B' int\_field1 = 2 ) \\n ( %cid = '3' char\_field1 = 'C' int\_field1 = 3 ) ) \\n MAPPED DATA(mapped) \\n FAILED DATA(failed) \\n REPORTED DATA(reported). \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. abenabap.html abenabap\_rap.html abencds\_bdef.html abenbdl.html abenbdl\_rap\_bo\_interface.html abenbdl\_define\_beh\_interface.html abenbdl\_body\_interface.html