---
title: "Demo for ABAP Keyword Documentation"
description: |
  n'! n'! Disclaimer:  n'! This class represents a demonstration program of the ABAP Keyword n'! Documentation, primarily intended to provide a better explanation n'! and visualization of syntax. It is not intended for production use n'! and may use demo artifacts that are not rel
library: "cloud"
libraryName: "ABAP Cloud"
category: "general"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_cp_index_htm/CLOUD/en-US/ABENDERIVED_TYPE_HIERARCHY_ABEXA.htm"
abapFile: "ABENDERIVED_TYPE_HIERARCHY_ABEXA.html"
keywords: ["select", "update", "delete", "loop", "do", "if", "case", "method", "class", "data", "types", "internal-table", "ABENDERIVED", "TYPE", "HIERARCHY", "ABEXA"]
---

This example demonstrates [actions](ABENRAP_ACTION_GLOSRY.html) whose [`deep` input parameters](ABENBDL_ACTION_INPUT_PARAM.html) and [`deep` output parameters](ABENBDL_ACTION_OUTPUT_PARA.html) use the [BDEF derived types](ABENRAP_DERIVED_TYPE_GLOSRY.html)\\ [`TYPE TABLE FOR HIERARCHY`](ABAPTYPE_TABLE_FOR.html) and [`TYPE STRUCTURE FOR HIERARCHY`](ABAPTYPE_STRUCTURE_FOR.html) with a [managed](ABENBDL_IMPL_TYPE.html)\\ [RAP BO](ABENRAP_BO_GLOSRY.html).

**Data model**

The CDS data model consists of the [root entity](ABENROOT_ENTITY_GLOSRY.html)\\ `DEMO_MANAGED_HIERARCHY`:

Furthermore, the example uses the following abstract entities:

**Behavior definition**

The [RAP behavior definition](ABENCDS_BEHAVIOR_DEFINITION_GLOSRY.html)\\ `DEMO_MANAGED_HIERARCHY` is defined in [RAP BDL](ABENCDS_BDL_GLOSRY.html) as follows:

**Note** Using the notation *numbering : managed* for the key field, the value of the key field gets automatically created for each RAP BO instance.

Further BDEFs for root abstract entities that are relevant for the example:

**Behavior implementation**

For the above RAP behavior definition, one [ABAP behavior pool (ABP)](ABENBEHAVIOR_POOL_GLOSRY.html) is created. The global class of the behavior pool is `BP_DEMO_MANAGED_HIERARCHY`. The actual behavior implementation takes place in local classes that are defined and implemented in the `BP_DEMO_MANAGED_HIERARCHY=====CCIMP` of the behavior pool.

The following methods are relevant for the example:

**Access with ABAP using EML**

The class includes multiple ABAP EML [`MODIFY`](ABAPMODIFY_ENTITY_ENTITIES.html) requests executing actions. Before the actions are carried out, the input parameters for those actions is prepared. In this case, multiple internal tables and structures that are typed with the BDEF derived types `TYPE TABLE FOR HIERARCHY` or `TYPE STRUCTURE FOR HIERARCHY` respectively are created. The structures and internal tables are filled with demo values to provide input parameters for the actions that have deep parameters. In case of the action `action_deep_param`, the input parameter is a structure. In case of the action `action_deep_table_param`, the input parameter is an internal table. The value assignment just visualizes the hierarchy data and possible components of the BDEF derived types, i. e. multiple types with `FOR HIERARCHY` can occur in those BDEF derived types.

The following ABAP EML `MODIFY` requests executing actions are covered in the example:

-   `DEMO_ABSTRACT_ROOT` (root abstract entity)
-   `DEMO_HIER_ABS_ITEM1`
-   `DEMO_HIER_ABS_ITEM2`
-   `DEMO_HIER_ABS_SCALAR` ([scalar type](ABENBDL_DEFINE_BEH_ABSTRACT.html))
-   `DEMO_ABSTRACT_ROOT_2` (root abstract entity)

-   `DEMO_ABSTRACT_ROOT`
-   `DEMO_ABSTRACT_ROOT_2`

-   `action_flat_param`
-   The method loops at the flat input parameter. In the loop, the components of a structure are filled with values from the input parameter. These values are also changed within the loop. This change includes adding characters to the character fields and a calculation for the numeric fields. The output parameter `result` returns the changed instances. Furthermore, the instances are added to an internal table that is typed with the BDEF derived type [`TYPE TABLE FOR CREATE`](ABAPTYPE_TABLE_FOR.html). This internal table with RAP BO instances is used as input for a [RAP create operation](ABENRAP_CREATE_OPERATION_GLOSRY.html).
-   `action_deep_param`
-   The method loops at the deep input parameter which includes a structure of type `TYPE STRUCTURE FOR HIERARCHY`. In the loop, the components of a structure are filled with selected values from the abstract entities. Similar to the previous method, these values are changed. The structure is added to the output parameter `result` and to an internal table on whose bases a RAP create operation is carried out.
-   `action_deep_table_param`
-   The method loops at the deep input parameter which includes a table of type `TYPE TABLE FOR HIERARCHY`. In the loop, the components of a structure are filled with selected values from the abstract entities. Similar to the previous methods, these values are changed. The structure is added to the output parameter `result` and to an internal table on whose bases a RAP create operation is carried out.
-   `returnhdata`
-   The method returns hierarchy data. The focus of this method is the use of variables that are typed with either `TYPE TABLE FOR HIERARCHY` or `TYPE STRUCTURE FOR HIERARCHY`. It visualizes how the BDEF derived type component [`%param`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_PARAM.html), which is contained in the output parameter `result`, might be set up, i. e. the component itself can contain subcomponents of type `TYPE TABLE FOR HIERARCHY` and `TYPE STRUCTURE FOR HIERARCHY`. The variables, i. e. the structures and internal tables, are filled with demo data. This data is added to the output parameter `result`.
-   `storehdata`
-   The method loops at the deep input parameter which includes a structure of type `TYPE STRUCTURE FOR HIERARCHY`. In the loop, an internal table, which is typed with `TYPE TABLE FOR CREATE`, is filled with selected values from the abstract entities. A RAP create operation is carried out creating those instances that have been added to the internal table. Furthermore, the instances are added to the output parameter `result`.

1.  Executing action `action_flat_param`
2.  A content ID [`%cid`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_CID.html) and a flat parameter `%param` are provided as input parameter. A [`COMMIT ENTITIES`](ABAPCOMMIT_ENTITIES.html) statement saves the RAP BO instances to the database. The result of the action is output based on the method implementation mentioned above. The database table entries are retrieved using a [`SELECT`](ABAPSELECT.html) statement and displayed as well.
3.  Executing action `action_deep_param`
4.  A content ID [`%cid`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_CID.html) and a deep parameter `%param` are provided as input parameter. Here, `%param` is a structure. A [`COMMIT ENTITIES`](ABAPCOMMIT_ENTITIES.html) statement saves the RAP BO instances to the database. The result of the action is output based on the method implementation mentioned above. The database table entries are retrieved using a [`SELECT`](ABAPSELECT.html) statement and output as well.
5.  Executing action `action_deep_table_param`
6.  A content ID [`%cid`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_CID.html) and a deep parameter `%param` are provided as input parameter. Here, `%param` is an internal table. A [`COMMIT ENTITIES`](ABAPCOMMIT_ENTITIES.html) statement saves the RAP BO instances to the database. The result of the action is output based on the method implementation mentioned above. The database table entries are displayed, too.
7.  Executing actions `returnhdata` and `storehdata`
8.  A content ID [`%cid`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_CID.html) is provided as input parameter for the `returnhdata` method. The method returns data based on the method implementation mentioned above. This data is used as input parameter for the `storehdata` method which includes a RAP create operations that create RAP BO instances. A [`COMMIT ENTITIES`](ABAPCOMMIT_ENTITIES.html) statement saves the RAP BO instances to the database. The result of both actions is displayed as well as the database table entries.

@AccessControl.authorizationCheck: #NOT\_REQUIRED\\ndefine root view entity DEMO\_MANAGED\_HIERARCHY\\n as select from demo\_tab\_root\_6\\n \\{\\n key id,\\n char1,\\n char2,\\n num1,\\n num2\\n \\}\\n managed implementation in class bp\_demo\_managed\_hierarchy unique;\\nstrict(2);\\n\\ndefine behavior for DEMO\_MANAGED\_HIERARCHY\\npersistent table demo\_tab\_root\_6\\nlock master\\nauthorization master ( none )\\n\\n\\{\\n create;\\n update;\\n delete;\\n\\n field ( readonly, numbering : managed ) id;\\n\\n // flat\\n static action action\_flat\_param parameter\\n DEMO\_ABSTRACT\_ROOT result \[1..\*\] $self;\\n\\n // structure as input parameter\\n static action action\_deep\_param deep parameter\\n DEMO\_ABSTRACT\_ROOT result \[1..\*\] $self;\\n\\n // table as input parameter\\n static action action\_deep\_table\_param deep table\\n parameter DEMO\_ABSTRACT\_ROOT result \[1..\*\] $self;\\n\\n static action storeHData deep parameter\\n DEMO\_ABSTRACT\_ROOT result \[1..\*\] $self;\\n\\n static action returnHData deep result \[1\] DEMO\_ABSTRACT\_ROOT;\\n\\n\\} \* Public class definition \\n"!

Demo for ABAP Keyword Documentation

\\ \\n"! \\n"!

**Disclaimer:**
\\ \\n"! This class represents a demonstration program of the ABAP Keyword \\n"! Documentation, primarily intended to provide a better explanation \\n"! and visualization of syntax. It is not intended for production use \\n"! and may use demo artifacts that are not released as APIs for use \\n"! in ABAP for Cloud Development.

\\ \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_der\_types\_hrrchy DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n METHODS constructor. \\n\\ \\n PRIVATE SECTION. \\n METHODS: \\n initialize\_dbtabs. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_der\_types\_hrrchy IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n out->begin\_section( \`Demo: TYPE TABLE/STRUCTURE FOR HIERARCHY\` ). \\n\\ \\n "Prepare input parameter for BDEF derived types ...FOR HIERARCHY... \\n DATA: \\n "Derived types for abstract root entity \\n ls\_hier\_abs\_root \\n TYPE STRUCTURE FOR HIERARCHY demo\_abstract\_root, \\n lt\_hier\_abs\_root \\n TYPE TABLE FOR HIERARCHY demo\_abstract\_root, \\n "Derived types for abstract entities \\n ls\_hier\_abs\_item1 \\n TYPE STRUCTURE FOR HIERARCHY demo\_hier\_abs\_item1, \\n lt\_hier\_abs\_item2 \\n TYPE TABLE FOR HIERARCHY demo\_hier\_abs\_item2, \\n ls\_struc \\n TYPE demo\_abstract\_root. \\n\\ \\n "Add hierarchy data. Fill structures and tables. \\n "Create entries for structure to be used as input parameter \\n "for action action\_deep\_param. \\n ls\_struc = VALUE #( char1 = 'f' \\n char2 = 'para' \\n num1 = 1 \\n num2 = 2 ). \\n\\ \\n ls\_hier\_abs\_item1 = VALUE #( char1 = 'd' \\n char2 = 'para' \\n num1 = 3 \\n num2 = 4 \\n \_root2 = VALUE #( \\n char1 = 'demo' \\n char2 = 'demo' \\n num1 = 5 \\n num2 = 6 ) \\n %control = VALUE #( \\n char1 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n char2 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n num1 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n num2 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n \_root2 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on ) \\n ). \\n\\ \\n lt\_hier\_abs\_item2 = VALUE #( %control = VALUE #( \\n char1 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n char2 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n num1 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n num2 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on ) \\n ( char1 = 'd' \\n char2 = 'para' \\n num1 = 7 \\n num2 = 8 ) \\n ( char1 = 'd' \\n char2 = 'para' \\n num1 = 9 \\n num2 = 10 ) \\n ). \\n\\ \\n ls\_hier\_abs\_root = VALUE #( char1 = ls\_struc-char1 \\n char2 = ls\_struc-char2 \\n num1 = ls\_struc-num1 \\n num2 = ls\_struc-num2 \\n \_item1 = ls\_hier\_abs\_item1 \\n \_item2 = lt\_hier\_abs\_item2 \\n \_scalar = 'scalar' \\n %control = VALUE #( \\n char1 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n char2 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n num1 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n num2 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n \_item1 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n \_item2 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n \_scalar = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on ) ). \\n\\ \\n "Create entries for internal table to be used as input parameter \\n "for action action\_deep\_table\_param. \\n DO 2 TIMES. \\n APPEND ls\_hier\_abs\_root TO lt\_hier\_abs\_root. \\n ENDDO. \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n "Executing action\_flat\_param \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_hierarchy \\n EXECUTE action\_flat\_param \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %cid = 'cid\_flat' \\n %param = ls\_struc ) ) \\n RESULT FINAL(lt\_result1) \\n MAPPED FINAL(ls\_mapped1) \\n REPORTED FINAL(ls\_reported1) \\n FAILED FINAL(ls\_failed1). \\n\\ \\n out->write\_html( \`**Executing action \` \\n && \`*action\_flat\_param***\` \\n )->write\_doc( \`action\_flat\_param: Action result\` \\n )->write( lt\_result1 ). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT \* FROM demo\_tab\_root\_6 INTO TABLE @FINAL(db\_tab1). \\n\\ \\n out->write\_doc( \`Database table entries:\` \\n )->write( db\_tab1 \\n )->line( ). \\n\\ \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n "Executing action\_deep\_param \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_hierarchy \\n EXECUTE action\_deep\_param \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %cid = 'cid\_deep\_param' \\n "Note: %param is here typed with TYPE STRUCTURE FOR HIERARCHY \\n %param = ls\_hier\_abs\_root ) ) \\n RESULT FINAL(lt\_result2) \\n MAPPED FINAL(ls\_mapped2) \\n REPORTED FINAL(ls\_reported2) \\n FAILED FINAL(ls\_failed2). \\n\\ \\n out->write\_html( \`**Executing action \` \\n && \`*action\_deep\_param***\` \\n )->write\_doc( \`action\_deep\_param: Action result\` \\n )->write( lt\_result2 ). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT \* FROM demo\_tab\_root\_6 INTO TABLE @FINAL(db\_tab2). \\n\\ \\n out->write\_doc( \`Database table entries:\` \\n )->write( db\_tab2 \\n )->line( ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n "Executing action\_deep\_table\_param \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_hierarchy \\n EXECUTE action\_deep\_table\_param \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %cid = 'cid\_deep\_table\_param' \\n "Note: %param is here typed with TYPE TABLE FOR HIERARCHY \\n %param = lt\_hier\_abs\_root ) ) \\n RESULT FINAL(lt\_result3) \\n MAPPED FINAL(ls\_mapped3) \\n REPORTED FINAL(ls\_reported3) \\n FAILED FINAL(ls\_failed3). \\n\\ \\n out->write\_html( \`**Executing action \` \\n && \`*action\_deep\_table\_param***\` \\n )->write\_doc( \`action\_deep\_table\_param: Action result\` \\n )->write( lt\_result3 ). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT \* FROM demo\_tab\_root\_6 INTO TABLE @FINAL(db\_tab3). \\n out->write\_doc( \`Database table entries:\` \\n )->write( db\_tab3 \\n )->line( ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n "Executing returnHData / storeHData \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_hierarchy \\n EXECUTE returnhdata FROM VALUE #( ( %cid = 'cid\_returnHData' ) ) \\n RESULT FINAL(lt\_result4) \\n MAPPED FINAL(ls\_mapped4) \\n REPORTED FINAL(ls\_reported4) \\n FAILED FINAL(ls\_failed4). \\n\\ \\n out->write\_html( \`**Executing actions \` \\n && \`*returnHData* and *storeHData***\` \\n )->write\_doc( \`returnHData: Action result\` \\n )->write( lt\_result4 ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_hierarchy \\n EXECUTE storehdata FROM CORRESPONDING #( lt\_result4 ) \\n RESULT FINAL(lt\_result5) \\n MAPPED FINAL(ls\_mapped5) \\n REPORTED FINAL(ls\_reported5) \\n FAILED FINAL(ls\_failed5). \\n\\ \\n out->write\_doc( \`storeHData: Action result\` \\n )->write( lt\_result5 ). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT \* FROM demo\_tab\_root\_6 INTO TABLE @FINAL(db\_tab4). \\n out->write\_doc( \`Database table entries:\` \\n )->write( db\_tab4 ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD initialize\_dbtabs. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_root\_6. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD constructor. \\n super->constructor( ). \\n initialize\_dbtabs( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. \* Public class definition \\n"!

Demo for ABAP Keyword Documentation

\\ \\n"! \\n"!

**Disclaimer:**
\\ \\n"! This class represents a demonstration program of the ABAP Keyword \\n"! Documentation, primarily intended to provide a better explanation \\n"! and visualization of syntax. It is not intended for production use \\n"! and may use demo artifacts that are not released as APIs for use \\n"! in ABAP for Cloud Development.

\\ \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_der\_types\_hrrchy DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n METHODS constructor. \\n\\ \\n PRIVATE SECTION. \\n METHODS: \\n initialize\_dbtabs. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_der\_types\_hrrchy IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n out->begin\_section( \`Demo: TYPE TABLE/STRUCTURE FOR HIERARCHY\` ). \\n\\ \\n "Prepare input parameter for BDEF derived types ...FOR HIERARCHY... \\n DATA: \\n "Derived types for abstract root entity \\n ls\_hier\_abs\_root \\n TYPE STRUCTURE FOR HIERARCHY demo\_abstract\_root, \\n lt\_hier\_abs\_root \\n TYPE TABLE FOR HIERARCHY demo\_abstract\_root, \\n "Derived types for abstract entities \\n ls\_hier\_abs\_item1 \\n TYPE STRUCTURE FOR HIERARCHY demo\_hier\_abs\_item1, \\n lt\_hier\_abs\_item2 \\n TYPE TABLE FOR HIERARCHY demo\_hier\_abs\_item2, \\n ls\_struc \\n TYPE demo\_abstract\_root. \\n\\ \\n "Add hierarchy data. Fill structures and tables. \\n "Create entries for structure to be used as input parameter \\n "for action action\_deep\_param. \\n ls\_struc = VALUE #( char1 = 'f' \\n char2 = 'para' \\n num1 = 1 \\n num2 = 2 ). \\n\\ \\n ls\_hier\_abs\_item1 = VALUE #( char1 = 'd' \\n char2 = 'para' \\n num1 = 3 \\n num2 = 4 \\n \_root2 = VALUE #( \\n char1 = 'demo' \\n char2 = 'demo' \\n num1 = 5 \\n num2 = 6 ) \\n %control = VALUE #( \\n char1 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n char2 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n num1 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n num2 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n \_root2 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on ) \\n ). \\n\\ \\n lt\_hier\_abs\_item2 = VALUE #( %control = VALUE #( \\n char1 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n char2 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n num1 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n num2 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on ) \\n ( char1 = 'd' \\n char2 = 'para' \\n num1 = 7 \\n num2 = 8 ) \\n ( char1 = 'd' \\n char2 = 'para' \\n num1 = 9 \\n num2 = 10 ) \\n ). \\n\\ \\n ls\_hier\_abs\_root = VALUE #( char1 = ls\_struc-char1 \\n char2 = ls\_struc-char2 \\n num1 = ls\_struc-num1 \\n num2 = ls\_struc-num2 \\n \_item1 = ls\_hier\_abs\_item1 \\n \_item2 = lt\_hier\_abs\_item2 \\n \_scalar = 'scalar' \\n %control = VALUE #( \\n char1 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n char2 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n num1 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n num2 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n \_item1 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n \_item2 = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on \\n \_scalar = if\_abap\_behv=>mk-on ) ). \\n\\ \\n "Create entries for internal table to be used as input parameter \\n "for action action\_deep\_table\_param. \\n DO 2 TIMES. \\n APPEND ls\_hier\_abs\_root TO lt\_hier\_abs\_root. \\n ENDDO. \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n "Executing action\_flat\_param \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_hierarchy \\n EXECUTE action\_flat\_param \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %cid = 'cid\_flat' \\n %param = ls\_struc ) ) \\n RESULT FINAL(lt\_result1) \\n MAPPED FINAL(ls\_mapped1) \\n REPORTED FINAL(ls\_reported1) \\n FAILED FINAL(ls\_failed1). \\n\\ \\n out->write\_html( \`**Executing action \` \\n && \`*action\_flat\_param***\` \\n )->write\_doc( \`action\_flat\_param: Action result\` \\n )->write( lt\_result1 ). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT \* FROM demo\_tab\_root\_6 INTO TABLE @FINAL(db\_tab1). \\n\\ \\n out->write\_doc( \`Database table entries:\` \\n )->write( db\_tab1 \\n )->line( ). \\n\\ \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n "Executing action\_deep\_param \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_hierarchy \\n EXECUTE action\_deep\_param \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %cid = 'cid\_deep\_param' \\n "Note: %param is here typed with TYPE STRUCTURE FOR HIERARCHY \\n %param = ls\_hier\_abs\_root ) ) \\n RESULT FINAL(lt\_result2) \\n MAPPED FINAL(ls\_mapped2) \\n REPORTED FINAL(ls\_reported2) \\n FAILED FINAL(ls\_failed2). \\n\\ \\n out->write\_html( \`**Executing action \` \\n && \`*action\_deep\_param***\` \\n )->write\_doc( \`action\_deep\_param: Action result\` \\n )->write( lt\_result2 ). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT \* FROM demo\_tab\_root\_6 INTO TABLE @FINAL(db\_tab2). \\n\\ \\n out->write\_doc( \`Database table entries:\` \\n )->write( db\_tab2 \\n )->line( ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n "Executing action\_deep\_table\_param \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_hierarchy \\n EXECUTE action\_deep\_table\_param \\n FROM VALUE #( ( %cid = 'cid\_deep\_table\_param' \\n "Note: %param is here typed with TYPE TABLE FOR HIERARCHY \\n %param = lt\_hier\_abs\_root ) ) \\n RESULT FINAL(lt\_result3) \\n MAPPED FINAL(ls\_mapped3) \\n REPORTED FINAL(ls\_reported3) \\n FAILED FINAL(ls\_failed3). \\n\\ \\n out->write\_html( \`**Executing action \` \\n && \`*action\_deep\_table\_param***\` \\n )->write\_doc( \`action\_deep\_table\_param: Action result\` \\n )->write( lt\_result3 ). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT \* FROM demo\_tab\_root\_6 INTO TABLE @FINAL(db\_tab3). \\n out->write\_doc( \`Database table entries:\` \\n )->write( db\_tab3 \\n )->line( ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n "Executing returnHData / storeHData \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_hierarchy \\n EXECUTE returnhdata FROM VALUE #( ( %cid = 'cid\_returnHData' ) ) \\n RESULT FINAL(lt\_result4) \\n MAPPED FINAL(ls\_mapped4) \\n REPORTED FINAL(ls\_reported4) \\n FAILED FINAL(ls\_failed4). \\n\\ \\n out->write\_html( \`**Executing actions \` \\n && \`*returnHData* and *storeHData***\` \\n )->write\_doc( \`returnHData: Action result\` \\n )->write( lt\_result4 ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_hierarchy \\n EXECUTE storehdata FROM CORRESPONDING #( lt\_result4 ) \\n RESULT FINAL(lt\_result5) \\n MAPPED FINAL(ls\_mapped5) \\n REPORTED FINAL(ls\_reported5) \\n FAILED FINAL(ls\_failed5). \\n\\ \\n out->write\_doc( \`storeHData: Action result\` \\n )->write( lt\_result5 ). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT \* FROM demo\_tab\_root\_6 INTO TABLE @FINAL(db\_tab4). \\n out->write\_doc( \`Database table entries:\` \\n )->write( db\_tab4 ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD initialize\_dbtabs. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_root\_6. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD constructor. \\n super->constructor( ). \\n initialize\_dbtabs( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. abenabap.html abenabap\_rap.html abenabap\_for\_rap\_bos.html abenrpm\_derived\_types.html abaptype\_table\_for.html