---
title: "This statement"
description: |
  has the same effect as the following function module call: -   Background jobs can usually be created and monitored via the menu path System - Services - Jobs. Internally, the language elements shown here are used. In addition to `JOB_OPEN`, the function modules `JOB_CLOSE` and `JOB_SUBMIT` can al
library: "standard"
libraryName: "Standard ABAP"
category: "general"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_latest_index_htm/latest/en-US/ABAPSUBMIT_VIA_JOB.htm"
abapFile: "ABAPSUBMIT_VIA_JOB.html"
keywords: ["select", "do", "if", "case", "method", "class", "data", "ABAPSUBMIT", "VIA", "JOB"]
---

[Short Reference](ABAPSUBMIT_SHORTREF.html)

`... [USER user] VIA JOB job NUMBER n [LANGUAGE lang] ...`

[1. `... USER user`](#ABAP_ADDITION_1@3@)

[2. `... LANGUAGE lang`](#ABAP_ADDITION_2@3@)

This addition schedules the execution of the called program as a [background task](ABENBACKROUND_TASK_GLOSRY.html) with the number `n` in the [background request](ABENBACKROUND_REQUEST_GLOSRY.html)\\ `job`. The number `n` for a background request `job` must be obtained using the function module `JOB_OPEN` from the function pool `BTCH`. The complete program is not processed directly but in a [background session](ABENBATCH_SESSION_GLOSRY.html) in accordance with the parameters for the background request and is not processed directly. The addition `VIA JOB` can only be used together with the addition `AND RETURN`.

The called program is scheduled and executed in three steps:

If a basic list is created in the called program, a [spool request](ABENSPOOL_REQUEST_GLOSRY.html) should be created with explicitly passed spool parameters by specifying [`TO SAP-SPOOL`](ABAPSUBMIT_LIST_OPTIONS.html) at the same time. Otherwise, the addition `VIA JOB` creates a spool request implicitly that derives its spool parameters from standard values, some of which are taken from the user defaults, and are not necessarily consistent.

Scheduling of a program `demo_submitable` as a background task with the number `number` in a background request `name`. After scheduling, the background task is completed by the function module `JOB_CLOSE` and released immediately, providing the user has the relevant authorization. The latter can be checked using the [authorization object](ABENAUTHORIZATION_OBJECT_GLOSRY.html)\\ `S_BTCH_JOB`.

The following code snippet shows how the background task can be analyzed.

The optional addition `USER` can be used to specify a user name `user` of the type `sy-uname` under whose name the logon to the background session takes place and whose authorizations are used to execute the background task. If `USER` is not specified, the user name of the current user session is used.

This addition sets the [logon language](ABENLOGON_LANGUAGE_GLOSRY.html) of the [background session](ABENBATCH_SESSION_GLOSRY.html) in which the called program is executed. If the addition `LANGUAGE` is not specified, the [text environment language](ABENTEXT_ENV_LANGU_GLOSRY.html) of the current [internal session](ABENINTERNAL_SESSION_GLOSRY.html) is used.

`lang` expects a character-like data object that contains a language key with a length of one character in the first place and this value must be contained in the column `SPRAS` of the database table `T002`. If the data object `lang` contains a blank at the first position, the [logon language](ABENLOGON_LANGUAGE_GLOSRY.html) of the current user is used.

If the function module `JOB_SUBMIT` is called internally, its optional parameter `LANGUAGE` is passed the first position of `lang`.

This statement

has the same effect as the following function module call:

-   Background jobs can usually be created and monitored via the menu path *System - Services - Jobs*. Internally, the language elements shown here are used. In addition to `JOB_OPEN`, the function modules `JOB_CLOSE` and `JOB_SUBMIT` can also be used in the ABAP program. `JOB_CLOSE` completes the creation of a background request. Like the `SUBMIT` statement, `JOB_SUBMIT` schedules an ABAP program as a background task in a background request. `JOB_SUBMIT` provides more control options for [background processing](ABENBACKROUND_PROCESSING_GLOSRY.html) but the input values for the selection screen must be passed to an existing selection screen variant. The statement `SUBMIT` creates this variant and accesses `JOB_SUBMIT` internally.
-   If a scheduling error occurs, the key of the last [error message](ABENERROR_MESSAGE_GLOSRY.html) sent can be read using the method `GET_ERROR_MESSAGE` of the class `CL_ABAP_SUBMIT_HANDLING`.
-   Also when the addition `VIA JOB` is used, a [call sequence](ABENCALL_SEQUENCE_GLOSRY.html) is created for a short time. In the called program, the associated [ABAP memory](ABENABAP_MEMORY_GLOSRY.html) can be accessed in the processing blocks that are executed before actual background processing in the first step above, that is, before the internal session is exited after selection screen processing. The actual background processing takes place in a separate [background session](ABENBATCH_SESSION_GLOSRY.html), where neither the [ABAP memory](ABENABAP_MEMORY_GLOSRY.html) nor the [user memory](ABENUSER_MEMORY_GLOSRY.html) of the calling program can be accessed.

-   The name specified after `USER` is checked using the [authorization object](ABENAUTHORIZATION_OBJECT_GLOSRY.html)\\ `S_BTCH_NAM`. When the program is executed, only those names can be specified for which the current user has the appropriate authorization. The names allowed by the authorization object represent a type of include list of users whose logons allow the current user to execute a background task.
-   The current user should not be specified explicitly using `USER sy-uname`. This specification is redundant, and the system field is also at risk of being overwritten before the background task is scheduled, for example in the ABAP Debugger.
-   See also [User-Specific Program Flow](ABENUSER_DEPENDENT_SCRTY.html).

1.  The addition `VIA JOB` also loads the called program in a separate [internal session](ABENINTERNAL_SESSION_GLOSRY.html) when the statement `SUBMIT` is executed, and all steps located before [`START-OF-SELECTION`](ABAPSTART-OF-SELECTION.html) are executed. This means the events [`LOAD-OF-PROGRAM`](ABAPLOAD-OF-PROGRAM.html) and [`INITIALIZATION`](ABAPINITIALIZATION.html) are raised, and [selection screen processing](ABENSELSCREEN_PROCESSING_GLOSRY.html) is performed. If the selection screen is not processed in the background because `VIA SELECTION-SCREEN` is specified, the user of the calling program can edit it and schedule the called program in the background request using the function *Place in Job*. If the user cancels selection screen processing, the program is not scheduled in the background job. In both cases, the internal session of the called program is terminated after selection screen processing and the calling program is resumed due to `AND RETURN`.
2.  The program is then scheduled in the background task. After this, scheduling is carried out in the background task, where the selections specified by the user or by the additions for filling the selection screen are stored in an internal [selection screen variant](ABENVARIANT_GLOSRY.html).
3.  The actual execution of the program then takes place in a separate [background session](ABENBATCH_SESSION_GLOSRY.html) as part of the background request. The current user and client of the current session correspond to the user and client of the background session. The user can be overwritten using the addition `USER`. The language of the background session is either the current [text environment language](ABENTEXT_ENV_LANGU_GLOSRY.html) or can be set using the addition `LANGUAGE`. The program is now run completely. All events are raised, including those from selection screen processing, although the selection screen is processed in the background. The selection screen variant stored internally is passed to the selection screen between the events [`INITIALIZATION`](ABAPINITIALIZATION.html) and [`AT SELECTION SCREEN OUTPUT`](ABAPAT_SELECTION-SCREEN.html).

FINAL(out) = cl\_demo\_output=>new( ). \\n\\ \\nDATA: number TYPE tbtcjob-jobcount, \\n name TYPE tbtcjob-jobname VALUE 'JOB\_TEST', \\n print\_parameters TYPE pri\_params. \\n\\ \\n... \\n\\ \\nCALL FUNCTION 'JOB\_OPEN' \\n EXPORTING \\n jobname = name \\n IMPORTING \\n jobcount = number \\n EXCEPTIONS \\n cant\_create\_job = 1 \\n invalid\_job\_data = 2 \\n jobname\_missing = 3 \\n OTHERS = 4. \\nIF sy-subrc = 0. \\n SUBMIT demo\_submitable TO SAP-SPOOL \\n SPOOL PARAMETERS print\_parameters \\n WITHOUT SPOOL DYNPRO \\n VIA JOB name NUMBER number \\n AND RETURN. \\n IF sy-subrc = 0. \\n CALL FUNCTION 'JOB\_CLOSE' \\n EXPORTING \\n jobcount = number \\n jobname = name \\n strtimmed = 'X' \\n EXCEPTIONS \\n cant\_start\_immediate = 1 \\n invalid\_startdate = 2 \\n jobname\_missing = 3 \\n job\_close\_failed = 4 \\n job\_nosteps = 5 \\n job\_notex = 6 \\n lock\_failed = 7 \\n OTHERS = 8. \\n IF sy-subrc = 0. \\n out->write( \`Job \` && name && \\n \` submitted with number \` && number ). \\n ELSE. \\n ... \\n ENDIF. \\n ELSE. \\n FINAL(msg) = cl\_abap\_submit\_handling=>get\_error\_message( ). \\n MESSAGE ID msg-msgid \\n TYPE 'I' \\n NUMBER msg-msgno \\n WITH msg-msgv1 msg-msgv2 msg-msgv3 msg-msgv4 \\n DISPLAY LIKE msg-msgty. \\n ENDIF. \\nENDIF. \\n\\ \\nout->display( ). FINAL(out) = cl\_demo\_output=>new( ). \\n\\ \\nDATA: \\n name TYPE tbtcjob-jobname VALUE 'JOB\_TEST', \\n number TYPE tbtcjob-jobcount. \\ncl\_demo\_input=>add\_field( CHANGING field = name ). \\ncl\_demo\_input=>request( CHANGING field = number ). \\n\\ \\nDATA: \\n BEGIN OF jobstate, \\n aborted TYPE c LENGTH 1, \\n finished TYPE c LENGTH 1, \\n preliminary TYPE c LENGTH 1, \\n ready TYPE c LENGTH 1, \\n running TYPE c LENGTH 1, \\n scheduled TYPE c LENGTH 1, \\n suspended TYPE c LENGTH 1, \\n other TYPE c LENGTH 1, \\n END OF jobstate. \\n\\ \\nCALL FUNCTION 'SHOW\_JOBSTATE' \\n EXPORTING \\n jobcount = number \\n jobname = name \\n IMPORTING \\n aborted = jobstate-aborted \\n finished = jobstate-finished \\n preliminary = jobstate-preliminary \\n ready = jobstate-ready \\n running = jobstate-running \\n scheduled = jobstate-scheduled \\n suspended = jobstate-suspended \\n other = jobstate-other \\n EXCEPTIONS \\n jobcount\_missing = 1 \\n jobname\_missing = 2 \\n job\_notex = 3 \\n OTHERS = 4. \\nIF sy-subrc = 0. \\n out->write( jobstate ). \\nELSE. \\n out->write( \`Exception in SHOW\_JOBSTATE\` ). \\nENDIF. \\n\\ \\nDATA joblog TYPE TABLE OF tbtc5. \\nCALL FUNCTION 'BP\_JOBLOG\_READ' \\n EXPORTING \\n jobcount = number \\n jobname = name \\n TABLES \\n joblogtbl = joblog \\n EXCEPTIONS \\n cant\_read\_joblog = 1 \\n jobcount\_missing = 2 \\n joblog\_does\_not\_exist = 3 \\n joblog\_is\_empty = 4 \\n joblog\_name\_missing = 5 \\n jobname\_missing = 6 \\n job\_does\_not\_exist = 7 \\n OTHERS = 8. \\nIF sy-subrc = 0. \\n out->write( joblog ). \\nELSE. \\n out->write( \`Exception in BP\_JOBLOG\_READ\` ). \\nENDIF. \\n\\ \\nout->display( ). SUBMIT submitable TO SAP-SPOOL \\n SPOOL PARAMETERS print\_parameters \\n WITHOUT SPOOL DYNPRO \\n VIA JOB name NUMBER number \\n LANGUAGE langu \\n AND RETURN. CALL FUNCTION 'JOB\_SUBMIT' \\n EXPORTING \\n authcknam = sy-uname \\n jobcount = number \\n jobname = name \\n language = langu \\n priparams = print\_parameters \\n report = 'SUBMITABLE'. `sy-subrc` **Meaning** 0 Background task was scheduled successfully. 4 Scheduling was terminated by the user on the selection screen. 8 Error during the scheduling, that is during the internal call of `JOB_SUBMIT`. 12 Error during internal number assignment abenabap.html abenabap\_reference.html abenabap\_execution.html abenabap\_program\_call.html abenabap\_submit\_report.html abapsubmit.html