---
title: "ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_COMP"
description: |
  ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_COMP - Standard ABAP language reference documentation
library: "standard"
libraryName: "Standard ABAP"
category: "types"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_latest_index_htm/latest/en-US/ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_COMP.htm"
abapFile: "ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_COMP.html"
keywords: ["select", "update", "delete", "do", "if", "case", "method", "class", "data", "types", "internal-table", "ABAPDERIVED", "TYPES", "COMP"]
---

[BDEF derived types](ABENRAP_DERIVED_TYPE_GLOSRY.html) are derived by the [ABAP runtime framework](ABENABAP_RUNTIME_FRMWK_GLOSRY.html) based on [CDS entities](ABENCDS_ENTITY_GLOSRY.html) and their behavior definition in the [BDEF](ABENCDS_BEHAVIOR_DEFINITION_GLOSRY.html). Internal tables and structures that are typed with BDEF derived types contain components of CDS entities, that is, persisted key and data field values, that retain their original data type. However, BDEF derived types also contain additional RAP components that do not derive their type from the entity. They have special, tailor-made types that provide additional information required in the context of transactional processing. The names of these RAP components begin with `%` to avoid naming conflicts with components of the CDS entities.

The use of the components depends on the RAP operation and/or context, for example, `%pid` is only available for [`late numbering`](ABENBDL_LATE_NUMBERING.html) scenarios. All of the `%` components are generated by the ABAP compiler and are either typed with data types from the [ABAP Dictionary](ABENABAP_DICTIONARY_GLOSRY.html) or contain `%` components themselves. Among the components, there are also [component groups](ABENCOMPONENT_GROUP_GLOSRY.html) available. They begin with `%`, too, and serve the purpose of summarizing groups of table columns under a single name. For example, `%key` summarizes all primary keys of persisted instances.

See the details on the components following the links:

The two programs `DEMO_RAP_DERIVED_TYPES_TABLE` and `DEMO_RAP_DERIVED_TYPES_STRUC` allow the selection of a particular BDEF derived type, `TYPE TABLE FOR` or `TYPE STRUCTURE FOR` respectively, and visualize the availability of the components of the individual BDEF derived type in an internal table that is displayed in an output window. The program makes use of a managed RAP BO. The dummy BDEF `DEMO_MANAGED_ROOT_TEST` contains various elements in the behavior body to show many of the components in the output. The dummy [behavior pool](ABENBEHAVIOR_POOL_GLOSRY.html)\\ `DEMO_MANAGED_ROOT_TEST` does not contain any method implementations in the `BP_DEMO_MANAGED_ROOT_TEST=====CCIMP`. Since variables cannot be declared with many of the BDEF derived types outside of the implementation class (for example, in a program), the global class `BP_DEMO_MANAGED_ROOT_TEST` contains variables that are typed with the various BDEF derived types and methods (`get_comp` and `get_comp_table`) that get the components.

**Note** The availability of components varies depending on the specification in the BDEF: **Note** This example does not fully meet the requirements of the [RAP BO contract](ABENRAP_BO_CONTRACT_GLOSRY.html). It is intentionally kept short and simple and focuses on specific RAP aspects. For example, some [RAP handler method](ABENABP_HANDLER_METHOD_GLOSRY.html) implementations might be empty. See more information on the RAP BO contract in the [Development guide for the ABAP RESTful Application Programming Model](https://help.sap.com/docs/ABAP_Cloud/f055b8bf582d4f34b91da667bc1fcce6/3a402c5cf6a74bc1a1de080b2a7c6978?version=sap_cross_product_abap).

-   Components related to keys and [RAP BO instance](ABENRAP_BO_INSTANCE_GLOSRY.html) identification

-   [Using Keys and Identifying RAP BO Instances in a Nutshell](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_KEYS_IDENTIFIERS.html)
-   [`%cid`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_CID.html)
-   [`%cid_ref`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_CID_REF.html)
-   [`%is_draft`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_IS_DRAFT.html)
-   [`%key`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_KEY.html)
-   [`%pid`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_PID.html)
-   [`%pre`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_PRE.html)
-   [`%tky`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_TKY.html)
-   [`%tmp`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_TMP.html)

-   Components related to information processing

-   [`%element`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_ELEMENT.html)
-   [`%fail`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_FAIL.html)
-   [`%global`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_GLOBAL.html)
-   [`%msg`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_MSG.html)
-   [`%other`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_OTHER.html)
-   [`%path`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_PATH.html)
-   [`%state_area`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_STATE_AREA.html)

-   Miscellaneous components

-   [`%action`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_ACTION.html)
-   [`%assoc`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_ASSOC.html)
-   [`%control`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_CONTROL.html)
-   [`%create`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_CREATE.html)
-   [`%data`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_DATA.html)
-   [`%delete`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_DELETE.html)
-   [`%features`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_FEATURES.html)
-   [`%field`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_FIELD.html)
-   [`%op`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_OP.html)
-   [`%own`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_OWN.html)
-   [`%param`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_PARAM.html)
-   [`%perm`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_PERM.html)
-   [`%target`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_TARGET.html)
-   [`%update`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_UPDATE.html)

-   The components of BDEF derived types can be checked via the element information in [ADT](ABENADT_GLOSRY.html) by choosing F2 for the typed variable. Note that `%key` and `%data` are component groups. The field names of the key and data fields are both displayed without the `%` component and as part of the `%` component.

-   If the full entity type of a data element is available in a BDEF derived type in the context of component groups, the components can be accessed directly without using the `%` component, that is, for example, `%data-field_name`. The specification of `field_name` alone is the same as using it together with the `%data` component (`%data-field`).
-   **Note** As a general rule, do not assign more than one value to a component. It results in a syntax error if the name of a component appears more than once on the left side of an assignment within the parentheses. A syntax warning is issued when structures containing component groups are involved. In this case, the respective components can be addressed as components of the including structures or by using the name of the component group. If in such a case, components are assigned more than one value, the last assignment is taken into account.
-   Therefore, the value assignment in BDEF derived types should be done with care. For example, in types in which `%data` and `%key` are available, `%data` additionally includes `%key` as a component. In such types, a value assignment for the keys might be done in multiple ways. A value filled for `%key-key_field_name` is the same as `key_field_name` (without the `%` component), `%data-key_field_name` and `%data-%key-key_field_name`. Make sure that there is only one assignment.

-   `%is_draft` is only available for [draft](ABENBDL_WITH_DRAFT.html) scenarios.
-   `%pid` is only available for [`late numbering`](ABENBDL_LATE_NUMBERING.html) scenarios.
-   For example, in the case of `TYPE STRUCTURE FOR GLOBAL FEATURES RESULTS`, which is similar for several other types that require a certain specification in the BDEF, only those elements that are specified with `features : global` are available as components.
-   Wherever `%key` is available, `%tky` can be specified, too. [`%pky`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_PKY.html) can also be specified (except in [`CREATE`](ABAPMODIFY_ENTITY_ENTITIES_OP.html) operations).
-   Wherever `%key` and `%data` are available, the actual key and data fields can be specified as well without the `%` component. Hence, the field names are also available as components.

abenabap.html abenabap\_rap.html abenabap\_for\_rap\_bos.html abenrpm\_derived\_types.html