---
title: "ABENDERIVED_TYPES_REPORTED_ABEXA"
description: |
  ABENDERIVED_TYPES_REPORTED_ABEXA - Standard ABAP language reference documentation
library: "standard"
libraryName: "Standard ABAP"
category: "types"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_latest_index_htm/latest/en-US/ABENDERIVED_TYPES_REPORTED_ABEXA.htm"
abapFile: "ABENDERIVED_TYPES_REPORTED_ABEXA.html"
keywords: ["select", "update", "delete", "loop", "do", "if", "case", "try", "method", "class", "data", "types", "internal-table", "ABENDERIVED", "TYPES", "REPORTED", "ABEXA"]
---

This example demonstrates the use of the following message-related [BDEF derived type](ABENRAP_DERIVED_TYPE_GLOSRY.html) components with a [managed](ABENBDL_IMPL_TYPE.html)\\ [RAP BO](ABENRAP_BO_GLOSRY.html):

See more details on message handling in the Development Guide for the ABAP RESTful Application Programming Model, section [Messages](https://help.sap.com/docs/ABAP_Cloud/f055b8bf582d4f34b91da667bc1fcce6/ac74189b5cae49c1b091f04393bac069?version=sap_cross_product_abap).

**Data model**

The CDS data model consists of the [root entity](ABENROOT_ENTITY_GLOSRY.html)\\ `DEMO_MANAGED_ROOT_REPORTED` and its [child entity](ABENCHILD_ENTITY_GLOSRY.html)\\ `DEMO_MANAGED_CHILD_REPORTED`.

Root entity:

Child entity:

**Behavior definition**

The [RAP behavior definition](ABENCDS_BEHAVIOR_DEFINITION_GLOSRY.html)\\ `DEMO_MANAGED_ROOT_REPORTED` is defined in [RAP BDL](ABENCDS_BDL_GLOSRY.html) as follows:

**Behavior implementation**

For the above RAP behavior definition, one [ABP](ABENBEHAVIOR_POOL_GLOSRY.html) is created. The global class of the behavior pool is `BP_DEMO_MANAGED_ROOT_REPORTED`. The actual behavior implementation takes place in local classes that are defined and implemented in the `BP_DEMO_MANAGED_ROOT_REPORTED=CCIMP` of the behavior pool.

The following methods are relevant for the example:

**Access with ABAP using EML**

The class includes multiple ABAP EML requests:

-   [`%element`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_ELEMENT.html)
-   [`%global`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_GLOBAL.html)
-   [`%msg`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_MSG.html)
-   [`%other`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_OTHER.html)
-   [`%own`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_OWN.html)
-   [`%path`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_PATH.html)
-   [`%state_area`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_STATE_AREA.html)

-   `get_global_authorizations`
-   The method is implemented in a way that RAP create, update and delete operations are only enabled for users with the appropriate authorizations. In the interest of having a simple demo, the example goes without an authorization object which is, for example, a way to handle the authorization granting in production applications. The variable `auth_flag` represents the authorization that is granted or not. In this case, the permission for the operations is granted and the [`reported`](ABAPTYPE_RESPONSE_FOR.html) response parameter is filled by adding a message to the `%msg` component. Furthermore, the components [`%create`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_CREATE.html), [`%update`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_UPDATE.html) and [`%delete`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_DELETE.html) are filled in case the respective `requested_authorizations` parameter is marked as enabled. The `%global` component is marked as enabled, too, because the message is a [RAP transition message](ABENRAP_TRANS_MES_GLOSRY.html) and, thus, related to a specific entity of the business object.
-   For demonstration purposes, a RAP unbound message is added to the `%other` component in the context of this method.
-   `validatenum`:
-   It contains the method implementation for a [validation](ABENBDL_VALIDATIONS.html). The validation checks whether the value of a number of a RAP BO instance field in the child entity is between the values of two numbers of two fields in the root entity. If this is not the case, the validation fails and the `failed` and `reported` response parameters are filled. Since `reported` is of type [`TYPE RESPONSE FOR REPORTED LATE`](ABAPTYPE_RESPONSE_FOR.html), the `%own` component is available and used in the example, although it is optional here, to refer to the child entity. The `%path`, `%element` and `%state_area` components are also filled. Before looping at the RAP BO instances, the state area is invalidated.
-   For demonstration purposes, a RAP unbound message is added to the `%other` component in the context of this method.

1.  **ABAP EML create request**:
2.  Multiple RAP BO instances are created for the root entity. A [`COMMIT ENTITIES`](ABAPCOMMIT_ENTITIES.html) triggers the saving of the instances to the database. Apart from an internal table showing the database table entries, the output shows the `REPORTED EARLY` response that, among other things, includes the `%global` component that is marked as enabled, and the content of the `%other` component.
3.  **First ABAP EML create-by-association request**:
4.  Multiple RAP BO instances are created for the child entity. All are purposely specified in a way so that the validation does not fail. Hence, all entries are saved to the database table following a `COMMIT ENTITIES` statement. The entries are shown in an internal table in the output. Besides this, `REPORTED LATE` responses are displayed. Since the validation is successful, there are no entries in the `reported` parameter for the RAP BO entities. For demo purposes, another RAP unbound message that has been added to `%other` when calling the `validatenum` method is displayed.
5.  **Second ABAP EML create-by-association request**:
6.  Two RAP BO instances are created for the child entity. All are purposely specified in a way so that the validation fails. Hence, the entries are not saved to the database table following a `COMMIT ENTITIES` statement. The entries of the database table are shown in an internal table in the output and do not show any changes. Also here, `REPORTED LATE` responses are displayed in a table. Since the validation fails, the `reported` parameter shows entries. Among them, there are entries to visualize the content of the `%path` and `%element` components. The `%state_area` component is initial in this context. A read operation that follows this create-by-association operation is required to visualize an entry. The RAP unbound message in `%other` is displayed, too.
7.  **ABAP EML read-by-association request**:
8.  A read-by-association operation is executed on the previously failed instances. The entries of the `REPORTED EARLY` response is displayed in an internal table. The sole purpose of this operation is to visualize the `%state_area` component that shows an entry.
9.  **Third ABAP EML create-by-association request**:
10.  A [`ROLLBACK ENTITIES`](ABAPROLLBACK_ENTITIES.html) statement before the create-by-association request rolls back all changes of the current [RAP transaction](ABENRAP_LUW_GLOSRY.html). Then, two RAP BO instances are created for the child entity using the same keys as previously. All are purposely specified in a way so that the validation does not fail. Hence, the entries are saved to the database table following a `COMMIT ENTITIES` statement. The entries of the database table are shown in an internal table. Both `REPORTED EARLY` and `REPORTED LATE` responses are displayed in an internal table, too, however, they do not show any entries for the child entity. The RAP unbound messages in `%other` contained in `REPORTED EARLY` and `REPORTED LATE` are displayed.

@AccessControl.authorizationCheck: #NOT\_REQUIRED\\ndefine root view entity DEMO\_MANAGED\_ROOT\_REPORTED\\n as select from demo\_tab\_root\_5\\n composition \[1..\*\] of DEMO\_MANAGED\_CHILD\_REPORTED as \_child\\n \\{ \\n key key\_field,\\n field1,\\n field2,\\n field3,\\n field4,\\n \_child\\n \\}\\n @AccessControl.authorizationCheck: #NOT\_REQUIRED\\ndefine view entity DEMO\_MANAGED\_CHILD\_REPORTED\\n as select from demo\_tab\_child\_5\\n association to parent DEMO\_MANAGED\_ROOT\_REPORTED \\n as \_parent on $projection.key\_field = \_parent.key\_field\\n \\{\\n \_parent,\\n key key\_field,\\n key key\_field\_child,\\n ch\_field1,\\n ch\_field2,\\n ch\_field3,\\n ch\_field4\\n \\}\\n managed implementation in class bp\_demo\_managed\_root\_reported unique;\\nstrict(2);\\n\\ndefine behavior for DEMO\_MANAGED\_ROOT\_REPORTED\\npersistent table DEMO\_TAB\_ROOT\_5\\nlock master\\nauthorization master ( global )\\n\\{\\n create;\\n update;\\n delete;\\n association \_child \\{ create; \\}\\n field(readonly:update) key\_field;\\n\\}\\n\\ndefine behavior for DEMO\_MANAGED\_CHILD\_REPORTED\\npersistent table DEMO\_TAB\_CHILD\_5\\nlock dependent by \_parent\\nauthorization dependent by \_parent\\n\\{\\n update;\\n delete;\\n field ( readonly ) key\_field;\\n association \_parent;\\n validation ValidateNum on save \\{ field ch\_field1; create; \\}\\n field(readonly:update) key\_field\_child;\\n\\n\\} \* Public class definition \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_drvd\_types\_repo DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n METHODS constructor. \\n\\ \\n PRIVATE SECTION. \\n DATA: \\n reported\_late TYPE RESPONSE FOR REPORTED LATE \\n demo\_managed\_root\_reported, \\n reported\_early TYPE RESPONSE FOR REPORTED EARLY \\n demo\_managed\_root\_reported. \\n METHODS: \\n initialize\_dbtabs. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_drvd\_types\_repo IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n out->begin\_section( \`Demo for BDEF derived type components \` && \\n \`relating to REPORTED messages\` \\n )->line( \\n )->next\_section( \`RAP create operation\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_reported \\n CREATE FIELDS ( key\_field field1 field2 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid1' %key-key\_field = 1 \\n field1 = 'aaa' field2 = 'bbb' field3 = 10 field4 = 20 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid2' %key-key\_field = 2 \\n field1 = 'ccc' field2 = 'ddd' field3 = 20 field4 = 40 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid3' %key-key\_field = 3 \\n field1 = 'eee' field2 = 'fff' field3 = 30 field4 = 60 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid4' %key-key\_field = 4 \\n field1 = 'ggg' field2 = 'hhh' field3 = 40 field4 = 80 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid5' %key-key\_field = 5 \\n field1 = 'iii' field2 = 'jjj' field3 = 50 field4 = 100 ) \\n ) \\n MAPPED FINAL(map) \\n FAILED FINAL(fail) \\n REPORTED reported\_early. \\n\\ \\n out->write( reported\_early ). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, field3, field4 \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_5 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(root\_tab). \\n\\ \\n out->write\_html( \\n \`**Database table entries \` && \\n \`after the operations**\` \\n )->write( root\_tab \\n )->line( \\n )->next\_section( \`RAP create-by-association operation (1)\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_reported \\n CREATE BY \\\\\_child FIELDS ( key\_field\_child ch\_field1 \\n ch\_field2 ch\_field3 ch\_field4 ) WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %key-key\_field = 1 \\n %target = VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid\_child1' \\n key\_field\_child = 10 \\n ch\_field1 = 'kkk' \\n ch\_field2 = 'lll' \\n ch\_field3 = 15 \\n ch\_field4 = 30 \\n ) ) ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 2 \\n %target = VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid\_child2' \\n key\_field\_child = 20 \\n ch\_field1 = 'mmm' \\n ch\_field2 = 'nnn' \\n ch\_field3 = 25 \\n ch\_field4 = 50 \\n ) ) ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 3 \\n %target = VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid\_child3' \\n key\_field\_child = 30 \\n ch\_field1 = 'ooo' \\n ch\_field2 = 'ppp' \\n ch\_field3 = 35 \\n ch\_field4 = 70 \\n ) ) ) \\n ) \\n MAPPED FINAL(map2) \\n FAILED FINAL(fail2) \\n REPORTED reported\_early. \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSE OF demo\_managed\_root\_reported \\n REPORTED reported\_late. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n out->write( reported\_late ). \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, key\_field\_child, ch\_field1, ch\_field2, \\n ch\_field3, ch\_field4 \\n FROM demo\_tab\_child\_5 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(child\_tab). \\n\\ \\n out->write\_html( \\n \`**Database table entries \` && \\n \`after the operations**\` \\n )->write( child\_tab \\n )->line( \\n )->next\_section( \`RAP create-by-association operation (2)\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_reported \\n CREATE BY \\\\\_child FIELDS ( key\_field\_child ch\_field1 \\n ch\_field2 ch\_field3 ch\_field4 ) WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %key-key\_field = 4 \\n %target = VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid\_child4' \\n key\_field\_child = 40 \\n ch\_field1 = 'qqq' \\n ch\_field2 = 'rrr' \\n ch\_field3 = 90 \\n ch\_field4 = 100 \\n ) ) ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 5 \\n %target = VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid\_child5' \\n key\_field\_child = 50 \\n ch\_field1 = 'sss' \\n ch\_field2 = 'ttt' \\n ch\_field3 = 110 \\n ch\_field4 = 120 \\n ) ) ) ) \\n MAPPED FINAL(map3) \\n FAILED FINAL(fail3) \\n REPORTED reported\_early. \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSE OF demo\_managed\_root\_reported \\n REPORTED reported\_late. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n out->write( reported\_late ). \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, key\_field\_child, ch\_field1, ch\_field2, \\n ch\_field3, ch\_field4 \\n FROM demo\_tab\_child\_5 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(child\_tab2). \\n\\ \\n out->write\_html( \\n \`**Database table entries \` && \\n \`after the operations**\` \\n )->write( child\_tab2 \\n )->line( \\n )->next\_section( \`REPORTED EARLY response for RAP \` && \\n \`read-by-association operation\` ). \\n\\ \\n READ ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_reported \\n BY \\\\\_child FROM VALUE #( \\n ( %tky-key\_field = 4 ) \\n ( %tky-key\_field = 5 ) ) \\n RESULT FINAL(result) \\n FAILED FINAL(fail4) \\n REPORTED reported\_early. \\n\\ \\n out->write( reported\_early ). \\n\\ \\n out->line( \\n )->next\_section( \`RAP create-by-association operation (3)\` ). \\n\\ \\n ROLLBACK ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_reported \\n CREATE BY \\\\\_child FIELDS ( key\_field\_child ch\_field1 \\n ch\_field2 ch\_field3 ch\_field4 ) WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %key-key\_field = 4 \\n %target = VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid\_child6' \\n key\_field\_child = 40 \\n ch\_field1 = 'uuu' \\n ch\_field2 = 'vvv' \\n ch\_field3 = 50 \\n ch\_field4 = 100 \\n ) ) ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 5 \\n %target = VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid\_child7' \\n key\_field\_child = 50 \\n ch\_field1 = 'www' \\n ch\_field2 = 'xxx' \\n ch\_field3 = 60 \\n ch\_field4 = 120 \\n ) ) ) \\n ) \\n MAPPED FINAL(map5) \\n FAILED FINAL(fail5) \\n REPORTED reported\_early. \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSE OF demo\_managed\_root\_reported \\n REPORTED reported\_late. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n out->write( reported\_early ). \\n out->write( reported\_late ). \\n\\ \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, key\_field\_child, ch\_field1, ch\_field2, \\n ch\_field3, ch\_field4 \\n FROM demo\_tab\_child\_5 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(child\_tab3). \\n\\ \\n out->write\_html( \\n \`**Database table entries \` && \\n \`after the operations**\` \\n )->write( child\_tab3 ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD initialize\_dbtabs. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_root\_5. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_child\_5. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD constructor. \\n super->constructor( ). \\n initialize\_dbtabs( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. \* Public class definition \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_drvd\_types\_repo DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n METHODS constructor. \\n\\ \\n PRIVATE SECTION. \\n DATA: \\n reported\_late TYPE RESPONSE FOR REPORTED LATE \\n demo\_managed\_root\_reported, \\n reported\_early TYPE RESPONSE FOR REPORTED EARLY \\n demo\_managed\_root\_reported. \\n METHODS: \\n initialize\_dbtabs. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_drvd\_types\_repo IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n out->begin\_section( \`Demo for BDEF derived type components \` && \\n \`relating to REPORTED messages\` \\n )->line( \\n )->next\_section( \`RAP create operation\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_reported \\n CREATE FIELDS ( key\_field field1 field2 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid1' %key-key\_field = 1 \\n field1 = 'aaa' field2 = 'bbb' field3 = 10 field4 = 20 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid2' %key-key\_field = 2 \\n field1 = 'ccc' field2 = 'ddd' field3 = 20 field4 = 40 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid3' %key-key\_field = 3 \\n field1 = 'eee' field2 = 'fff' field3 = 30 field4 = 60 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid4' %key-key\_field = 4 \\n field1 = 'ggg' field2 = 'hhh' field3 = 40 field4 = 80 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid5' %key-key\_field = 5 \\n field1 = 'iii' field2 = 'jjj' field3 = 50 field4 = 100 ) \\n ) \\n MAPPED FINAL(map) \\n FAILED FINAL(fail) \\n REPORTED reported\_early. \\n\\ \\n out->write( reported\_early ). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, field3, field4 \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_5 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(root\_tab). \\n\\ \\n out->write\_html( \\n \`**Database table entries \` && \\n \`after the operations**\` \\n )->write( root\_tab \\n )->line( \\n )->next\_section( \`RAP create-by-association operation (1)\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_reported \\n CREATE BY \\\\\_child FIELDS ( key\_field\_child ch\_field1 \\n ch\_field2 ch\_field3 ch\_field4 ) WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %key-key\_field = 1 \\n %target = VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid\_child1' \\n key\_field\_child = 10 \\n ch\_field1 = 'kkk' \\n ch\_field2 = 'lll' \\n ch\_field3 = 15 \\n ch\_field4 = 30 \\n ) ) ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 2 \\n %target = VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid\_child2' \\n key\_field\_child = 20 \\n ch\_field1 = 'mmm' \\n ch\_field2 = 'nnn' \\n ch\_field3 = 25 \\n ch\_field4 = 50 \\n ) ) ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 3 \\n %target = VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid\_child3' \\n key\_field\_child = 30 \\n ch\_field1 = 'ooo' \\n ch\_field2 = 'ppp' \\n ch\_field3 = 35 \\n ch\_field4 = 70 \\n ) ) ) \\n ) \\n MAPPED FINAL(map2) \\n FAILED FINAL(fail2) \\n REPORTED reported\_early. \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSE OF demo\_managed\_root\_reported \\n REPORTED reported\_late. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n out->write( reported\_late ). \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, key\_field\_child, ch\_field1, ch\_field2, \\n ch\_field3, ch\_field4 \\n FROM demo\_tab\_child\_5 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(child\_tab). \\n\\ \\n out->write\_html( \\n \`**Database table entries \` && \\n \`after the operations**\` \\n )->write( child\_tab \\n )->line( \\n )->next\_section( \`RAP create-by-association operation (2)\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_reported \\n CREATE BY \\\\\_child FIELDS ( key\_field\_child ch\_field1 \\n ch\_field2 ch\_field3 ch\_field4 ) WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %key-key\_field = 4 \\n %target = VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid\_child4' \\n key\_field\_child = 40 \\n ch\_field1 = 'qqq' \\n ch\_field2 = 'rrr' \\n ch\_field3 = 90 \\n ch\_field4 = 100 \\n ) ) ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 5 \\n %target = VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid\_child5' \\n key\_field\_child = 50 \\n ch\_field1 = 'sss' \\n ch\_field2 = 'ttt' \\n ch\_field3 = 110 \\n ch\_field4 = 120 \\n ) ) ) ) \\n MAPPED FINAL(map3) \\n FAILED FINAL(fail3) \\n REPORTED reported\_early. \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSE OF demo\_managed\_root\_reported \\n REPORTED reported\_late. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n out->write( reported\_late ). \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, key\_field\_child, ch\_field1, ch\_field2, \\n ch\_field3, ch\_field4 \\n FROM demo\_tab\_child\_5 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(child\_tab2). \\n\\ \\n out->write\_html( \\n \`**Database table entries \` && \\n \`after the operations**\` \\n )->write( child\_tab2 \\n )->line( \\n )->next\_section( \`REPORTED EARLY response for RAP \` && \\n \`read-by-association operation\` ). \\n\\ \\n READ ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_reported \\n BY \\\\\_child FROM VALUE #( \\n ( %tky-key\_field = 4 ) \\n ( %tky-key\_field = 5 ) ) \\n RESULT FINAL(result) \\n FAILED FINAL(fail4) \\n REPORTED reported\_early. \\n\\ \\n out->write( reported\_early ). \\n\\ \\n out->line( \\n )->next\_section( \`RAP create-by-association operation (3)\` ). \\n\\ \\n ROLLBACK ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_root\_reported \\n CREATE BY \\\\\_child FIELDS ( key\_field\_child ch\_field1 \\n ch\_field2 ch\_field3 ch\_field4 ) WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %key-key\_field = 4 \\n %target = VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid\_child6' \\n key\_field\_child = 40 \\n ch\_field1 = 'uuu' \\n ch\_field2 = 'vvv' \\n ch\_field3 = 50 \\n ch\_field4 = 100 \\n ) ) ) \\n ( %key-key\_field = 5 \\n %target = VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid\_child7' \\n key\_field\_child = 50 \\n ch\_field1 = 'www' \\n ch\_field2 = 'xxx' \\n ch\_field3 = 60 \\n ch\_field4 = 120 \\n ) ) ) \\n ) \\n MAPPED FINAL(map5) \\n FAILED FINAL(fail5) \\n REPORTED reported\_early. \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSE OF demo\_managed\_root\_reported \\n REPORTED reported\_late. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n out->write( reported\_early ). \\n out->write( reported\_late ). \\n\\ \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, key\_field\_child, ch\_field1, ch\_field2, \\n ch\_field3, ch\_field4 \\n FROM demo\_tab\_child\_5 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(child\_tab3). \\n\\ \\n out->write\_html( \\n \`**Database table entries \` && \\n \`after the operations**\` \\n )->write( child\_tab3 ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD initialize\_dbtabs. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_root\_5. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_child\_5. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD constructor. \\n super->constructor( ). \\n initialize\_dbtabs( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. abenabap.html abenabap\_rap.html abenabap\_for\_rap\_bos.html abenrpm\_derived\_types.html abapderived\_types\_comp.html abenderived\_types\_abexas.html