---
title: "ABENNEWS-70-CLEANUP"
description: |
  ABENNEWS-70-CLEANUP - Standard ABAP language reference documentation
library: "standard"
libraryName: "Standard ABAP"
category: "general"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_latest_index_htm/latest/en-US/ABENNEWS-70-CLEANUP.htm"
abapFile: "ABENNEWS-70-CLEANUP.html"
keywords: ["select", "delete", "do", "if", "method", "class", "data", "types", "internal-table", "field-symbol", "ABENNEWS", "CLEANUP"]
---

For ABAP release 7.0, the ABAP syntax has been cleaned up. Incorrect language constructs, which previously only led to syntax warnings, now cause syntax errors. The profile parameter `abap/warn2error_release` can be used to control whether the new syntax errors continue to be reported as syntax warnings.

The following tables show the situations that lead to syntax errors as of ABAP release 7.0. An *X* in the final column of the table indicates that the syntax in question already led to a syntax error in classes before ABAP release 7.0.

Programs that so far have used the language constructions stated above must now be considered as incorrect. If the respective positions in the program have been executed, runtime errors or undefined states occurred. The current syntax cleanup is intended to avoid error situations like the ones described here, when they are known statically in advance.

**Errors in Language Construct** **Program Structure** Statement cannot be reached. X Missing forward declaration of a class using [`CLASS - DEFERRED`](ABAPCLASS_DEFERRED.html). - **Declarations** Program-internal [name](ABENNAMING_CONVENTIONS.html) with more than 30 characters. X Special characters in a program-internal [name](ABENNAMING_CONVENTIONS.html) in obsolete ABAP (non-Unicode). X Single digit as the name of a data object. X Incorrect [namespace prefix](ABENNAMING_CONVENTIONS.html). X Operational statement within the definition of a [structure](ABENSTRUCTURE_GLOSRY.html) with `BEGIN OF` ... `END OF`. X Reference to a data type of the [compilation unit](ABENCOMPILATION_UNIT_GLOSRY.html) in a public [parameter interface](ABENPARAMETER_INTERFACE_GLOSRY.html) X Reference to a data type of the [compilation unit](ABENCOMPILATION_UNIT_GLOSRY.html) in the declaration of a public attribute of a global class - Incompatible or non-convertible value specified after `DEFAULT` for a [formal parameter](ABENFORMAL_PARAMETER_GLOSRY.html). - An interface parameter of a function module, which has been defined both as input and output parameter, was declared with different or generic types. - A type of a [type pool](ABENTYPE_POOL_GLOSRY.html) has the same name as an existing type in ABAP Dictionary. - A constant in a [type pool](ABENTYPE_POOL_GLOSRY.html) has the same name as an existing [flat structure](ABENFLAT_STRUCTURE_GLOSRY.html) or table in ABAP Dictionary. - A [macro](ABENMACRO_GLOSRY.html) in a [type pool](ABENTYPE_POOL_GLOSRY.html) does not have the name of the type pool as a prefix. A reserved component name such as the [pseudo component](ABENPSEUDO_COMPONENT_GLOSRY.html)\\ `table_line` is used in a DDIC structure. X Internal table with the predefined name [`screen`](ABENSCREEN_STRUCTURE_OBSOLETE.html). - **ABAP Objects** Unknown global class or interface after [`GLOBAL FRIENDS`](ABAPCLASS_OPTIONS.html). - `IMPORTING`, `CHANGING`, or `RECEIVING` specified in dynamic [`CREATE OBJECT`](ABAPCREATE_OBJECT_EXPLICIT.html). - Missing call of the [instance constructor](ABENINSTANCE_CONSTRUCTOR_GLOSRY.html) of the [superclass](ABENSUPERCLASS_GLOSRY.html) in the instance constructor of a [subclass](ABENSUBCLASS_GLOSRY.html). - [Instance component](ABENINSTANCE_COMPONENT_GLOSRY.html) accessed before the call of the [instance constructor](ABENINSTANCE_CONSTRUCTOR_GLOSRY.html) of the [superclass](ABENSUPERCLASS_GLOSRY.html) in the instance constructor of a [subclass](ABENSUBCLASS_GLOSRY.html). - Short form [`meth( a )`](ABAPCALL_METHOD_STATIC_SHORT.html) with a non-unique assignment to a formal parameter. - [Fixture](ABENFIXTURE_GLOSRY.html) method in [test class](ABENTEST_CLASS_GLOSRY.html) is not private. - **Operators and Additions** Invalid one-character operator in a [comparison expression](ABENCOMPARISON_EXPRESSION_GLOSRY.html), which has temporarily been interpreted as an abbreviation, for example, as `E` for `EQ`. - `AND` or `OR` at the end of a [logical expression](ABENLOGICAL_EXPRESSION_GLOSRY.html) not followed by a logical expression. - More than one `LENGTH` addition after [`DESCRIBE FIELD`](ABAPDESCRIBE_FIELD.html). - Addition `SORTED BY` specified after [`COLLECT`](ABAPCOLLECT.html). X Addition `LANGUAGE` specified after [`CREATE OBJECT`](ABAPCREATE_OBJECT_OLE2.html) for OLE. X Additions `AND SKIP FIRST SCREEN` and `USING` both specified after [`CALL TRANSACTION`](ABAPCALL_TRANSACTION.html). X Addition `OBJECT` missing after [`AUTHORITY-CHECK`](ABAPAUTHORITY-CHECK.html). - More than ten `FIELD` additions after [`AUTHORITY-CHECK`](ABAPAUTHORITY-CHECK.html). - **Operand Positions** Operand cannot be converted in assignment. - Operand that cannot be converted to a number at a numeric operand position (for example, after [`DECIMALS`](ABAPASSIGN_CASTING.html) for `ASSIGN`). - Length less than or equal to zero in the [offset/length specification](ABENOFFSET_LENGTH_SPECIFIC_GLOSRY.html) for fields of fixed length. X Empty [offset/lengths](ABENOFFSET_LENGTH_SPECIFIC_GLOSRY.html) specified. X Superfluous trailing blanks in [text field literals](ABENTEXT_FIELD_LITERAL_GLOSRY.html). X Line-spanning [text field literal](ABENTEXT_FIELD_LITERAL_GLOSRY.html). X Line-spanning element of a bulleted list. X Invalid use of a [text symbol](ABENTEXT_SYMBOL_GLOSRY.html) as the target of a call. - Internal table does not have the structure of a [ranges table](ABENRANGES_TABLE_GLOSRY.html) in a [comparison expression](ABENRELATIONAL_EXPRESSION_GLOSRY.html) after [`IN`](ABENLOGEXP_SELECT_OPTION.html). X `sy-subrc` assigned to a `CHANGING`, `EXPORTING`, or `RETURNING` parameter. X Data object passed to a formal parameter typed using `STRUCTURE` in a program of ABAP language version [Standard ABAP](ABENSTANDARD_ABAP_GLOSRY.html), where the [fragment view](ABENUNICODE_FRAGMENT_VIEW_GLOSRY.html) does not match completely. - Data object specified whose name contains an address specification such as an [instance component selector](ABENINSTANCE_COMP_SELECTOR_GLOSRY.html) or an [offset/length specification](ABENOFFSET_LENGTH_SPECIFIC_GLOSRY.html), without an explicit assignment to a parameter when using [`EXPORT`](ABAPEXPORT_DATA_CLUSTER_PARAM.html), [`IMPORT`](ABAPIMPORT_PARAMETERLIST.html), or [`CALL DIALOG`](ABAPCALL_DIALOG.html). X **Internal Tables** [Table type](ABENTABLE_TYPE_GLOSRY.html) defined for a [hashed table](ABENHASHED_TABLE_GLOSRY.html) without specifying `UNIQUE` before [`KEY`](ABAPTYPES_KEYDEF.html). - Non-[index table](ABENINDEX_TABLE_GLOSRY.html) specified after [`SEARCH`](ABAPSEARCH_ITAB.html). X Incompatible work area for group level processing using internal tables with [`AT`](ABAPAT_ITAB.html) and [`SUM`](ABAPSUM.html). X Component of a structured field symbol specified as a sort criterion after [`SORT`](ABAPSORT_ITAB.html). **Database Accesses** Columns of type `STRING` or `RAWSTRING` in [aggregate expressions](ABAPSELECT_AGGREGATE.html), [grouping](ABAPGROUPBY_CLAUSE.html), [sort keys](ABAPORDERBY_CLAUSE.html) of [`SELECT`](ABAPSELECT.html). - DDIC projection view accessed in connection with a correlated [subquery](ABENSUBQUERY_GLOSRY.html). Too many [subqueries](ABENSUBQUERY_GLOSRY.html) in a `SELECT` statement. - Work area or lines of an internal table are shorter than the structure of the database table when specifying the lines in [`DELETE dbtab`](ABAPDELETE_SOURCE.html). - [Indicator variable](ABAPEXEC_HOST.html) in [Native SQL](ABENNATIVE_SQL_GLOSRY.html), which is not of the external type `INT2`. - **List Statements** Dynamic position specification in [`WRITE`](ABAPWRITE-.html) or [`ULINE`](ABAPULINE.html) without `AT`. X Negative length `len` specified after [`WRITE AT`](ABAPWRITE-.html). - Write-protected data object specified after [`HIDE`](ABAPHIDE.html). X abenabap.html abennews.html abennews-70\_ehps.html abennews-70.html