---
title: "ABENCORRESP_MAPPING_DEFAULT_ABEXA"
description: |
  ABENCORRESP_MAPPING_DEFAULT_ABEXA - Standard ABAP language reference documentation
library: "standard"
libraryName: "Standard ABAP"
category: "general"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_latest_index_htm/latest/en-US/ABENCORRESP_MAPPING_DEFAULT_ABEXA.htm"
abapFile: "ABENCORRESP_MAPPING_DEFAULT_ABEXA.html"
keywords: ["do", "if", "method", "class", "data", "internal-table", "ABENCORRESP", "MAPPING", "DEFAULT", "ABEXA"]
---

This example demonstrates the `CORRESPONDING` operator and the additions `MAPPING` and `DEFAULT`.

The example covers assignments with the `CORRESPONDING` operator demonstrating expressions following the `DEFAULT` addition.

Check the comments in the source code for more information.

\* Public class definition \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_corr\_op\_map\_default DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_corr\_op\_map\_default IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n out->begin\_section( \`Demo: CORRESPONDING operator\` && \\n \` using the additions MAPPING and DEFAULT\` ). \\n\\ \\n "Creating structures \\n DATA: BEGIN OF struc1, \\n id1 TYPE i, \\n a TYPE string, \\n b TYPE string, \\n c TYPE i, \\n d TYPE string, \\n e TYPE i, \\n END OF struc1. \\n\\ \\n DATA: BEGIN OF struc2, \\n id2 TYPE i, \\n a TYPE string, \\n b TYPE string, \\n c TYPE i, \\n d TYPE string, \\n z TYPE i, \\n END OF struc2. \\n\\ \\n "Creating internal table \\n DATA itab1 LIKE TABLE OF struc1 WITH EMPTY KEY. \\n\\ \\n "Filling structure \\n struc1 = VALUE #( id1 = 1 a = \`a\` b = \`b\` c = 2 d = \`c\` e = 3 ). \\n\\ \\n "1) Assignment using CORRESPONDING (DEFAULT only) \\n "- Component a is not specified; it is mapped anyway \\n " due to the identical name and not being explicitly specified \\n " for mapping \\n "- The other components demonstrate various expressions \\n " in combination with the DEFAULT addition \\n "- Component d: Since the table is initial, there would be \\n " a shortdump if there was not the DEFAULT addition specified \\n " as part of the expression with the VALUE operator \\n struc2 = CORRESPONDING #( \\n struc1 MAPPING id2 = id1 \\n b = DEFAULT \`ha\` && \`llo\` \\n c = DEFAULT 1 + 5 \\n d = DEFAULT VALUE #( itab1\[ 1 \]-d DEFAULT \`hi\` ) \\n z = DEFAULT cl\_abap\_random\_int=>create( \\n seed = cl\_abap\_random=>seed( ) \\n min = 1 \\n max = 100 )->get\_next( ) ). \\n\\ \\n out->write( struc2 ). \\n\\ \\n "2) Assignment using CORRESPONDING (DEFAULT preceded by source \\n " component on the right-hand side) \\n "- Component a is not specified; it is mapped anyway \\n " due to the identical name and not being explicitly specified \\n " for mapping \\n "- The other components demonstrate various expressions \\n " in combination with the DEFAULT addition \\n "- Component b: The value of component b in the source is initial. \\n " Hence, the result of the expression is assigned. \\n "- Component c: The value of component c in the source is not \\n " initial. Hence, the value of c is assigned. \\n "- Component d: Not initial. Value of d is assigned. \\n "- Component e: Initial. Result of the expression is assigned. \\n\\ \\n "Filling structure \\n struc1 = VALUE #( id1 = 1 a = \`a\` b = \`\` c = 2 d = \`c\` e = 0 ). \\n\\ \\n struc2 = CORRESPONDING #( \\n struc1 MAPPING id2 = id1 \\n b = b DEFAULT \`ha\` && \`llo\` \\n c = c DEFAULT 1 + 5 \\n d = d DEFAULT VALUE #( itab1\[ 1 \]-d DEFAULT \`hi\` ) \\n z = e DEFAULT cl\_abap\_random\_int=>create( \\n seed = cl\_abap\_random=>seed( ) \\n min = 1 \\n max = 100 )->get\_next( ) ). \\n\\ \\n out->write( struc2 ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. \* Public class definition \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_corr\_op\_map\_default DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_corr\_op\_map\_default IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n out->begin\_section( \`Demo: CORRESPONDING operator\` && \\n \` using the additions MAPPING and DEFAULT\` ). \\n\\ \\n "Creating structures \\n DATA: BEGIN OF struc1, \\n id1 TYPE i, \\n a TYPE string, \\n b TYPE string, \\n c TYPE i, \\n d TYPE string, \\n e TYPE i, \\n END OF struc1. \\n\\ \\n DATA: BEGIN OF struc2, \\n id2 TYPE i, \\n a TYPE string, \\n b TYPE string, \\n c TYPE i, \\n d TYPE string, \\n z TYPE i, \\n END OF struc2. \\n\\ \\n "Creating internal table \\n DATA itab1 LIKE TABLE OF struc1 WITH EMPTY KEY. \\n\\ \\n "Filling structure \\n struc1 = VALUE #( id1 = 1 a = \`a\` b = \`b\` c = 2 d = \`c\` e = 3 ). \\n\\ \\n "1) Assignment using CORRESPONDING (DEFAULT only) \\n "- Component a is not specified; it is mapped anyway \\n " due to the identical name and not being explicitly specified \\n " for mapping \\n "- The other components demonstrate various expressions \\n " in combination with the DEFAULT addition \\n "- Component d: Since the table is initial, there would be \\n " a shortdump if there was not the DEFAULT addition specified \\n " as part of the expression with the VALUE operator \\n struc2 = CORRESPONDING #( \\n struc1 MAPPING id2 = id1 \\n b = DEFAULT \`ha\` && \`llo\` \\n c = DEFAULT 1 + 5 \\n d = DEFAULT VALUE #( itab1\[ 1 \]-d DEFAULT \`hi\` ) \\n z = DEFAULT cl\_abap\_random\_int=>create( \\n seed = cl\_abap\_random=>seed( ) \\n min = 1 \\n max = 100 )->get\_next( ) ). \\n\\ \\n out->write( struc2 ). \\n\\ \\n "2) Assignment using CORRESPONDING (DEFAULT preceded by source \\n " component on the right-hand side) \\n "- Component a is not specified; it is mapped anyway \\n " due to the identical name and not being explicitly specified \\n " for mapping \\n "- The other components demonstrate various expressions \\n " in combination with the DEFAULT addition \\n "- Component b: The value of component b in the source is initial. \\n " Hence, the result of the expression is assigned. \\n "- Component c: The value of component c in the source is not \\n " initial. Hence, the value of c is assigned. \\n "- Component d: Not initial. Value of d is assigned. \\n "- Component e: Initial. Result of the expression is assigned. \\n\\ \\n "Filling structure \\n struc1 = VALUE #( id1 = 1 a = \`a\` b = \`\` c = 2 d = \`c\` e = 0 ). \\n\\ \\n struc2 = CORRESPONDING #( \\n struc1 MAPPING id2 = id1 \\n b = b DEFAULT \`ha\` && \`llo\` \\n c = c DEFAULT 1 + 5 \\n d = d DEFAULT VALUE #( itab1\[ 1 \]-d DEFAULT \`hi\` ) \\n z = e DEFAULT cl\_abap\_random\_int=>create( \\n seed = cl\_abap\_random=>seed( ) \\n min = 1 \\n max = 100 )->get\_next( ) ). \\n\\ \\n out->write( struc2 ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. abenabap.html abenabap\_reference.html abenabap\_data\_working.html abenvalue\_assignments.html abencorresponding.html abencorresponding\_abexas.html