---
title: "ABENLDB_PROGRAM_EXAMPLE"
description: |
  ABENLDB_PROGRAM_EXAMPLE - Standard ABAP language reference documentation
library: "standard"
libraryName: "Standard ABAP"
category: "general"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_latest_index_htm/latest/en-US/ABENLDB_PROGRAM_EXAMPLE.htm"
abapFile: "ABENLDB_PROGRAM_EXAMPLE.html"
keywords: ["select", "delete", "loop", "do", "if", "case", "data", "internal-table", "ABENLDB", "PROGRAM", "EXAMPLE"]
---

A logical database `TEST_LDB` has the structure shown in [Example of a Logical Database](ABENLDB_EXAMPLE.html). All nodes are database tables. Selections are defined in the selection include:

SELECT-OPTIONS SLIFNR  FOR LFA1-LIFNR. \\nSELECT-OPTIONS SBUKRS  FOR LFB1-BUKRS. \\nSELECT-OPTIONS SGJAHR  FOR LFC1-GJAHR. \\nSELECT-OPTIONS SBELNR  FOR BKPF-BELNR.

The generated proposal for the database program is then as follows:

\*----------------------------------------------------------\* \\n\*      DATABASE PROGRAM OF LOGICAL DATABASE TEST\_LDB \\n\*----------------------------------------------------------\* \\nINCLUDE DBTEST\_LDBTOP.     " header \\nINCLUDE DBTEST\_LDBXXX.     " all system routines \\n\* INCLUDE DBTEST\_LDBF001.  " user defined include

PROGRAM SAPDBTEST\_LDB DEFINING DATABASE TEST\_LDB. \\nTABLES: LFA1, \\n         LFB1, \\n         LFC1, \\n         BKPF. \\n\* DATA: ...          "user defined variables

\*----------------------------------------------------------\* \\n\* Call event GET LFA1 \\n\*----------------------------------------------------------\* \\nFORM PUT\_LFA1. \\n\* SELECT \* FROM LFA1 \\n\*   INTO LFA1 \\n\*   INTO TABLE ? (choose one!) \\n\*   WHERE LIFNR = ?. \\n    PUT LFA1. \\n\* ENDSELECT. \\nENDFORM.                               "PUT\_LFA1 \\n\*----------------------------------------------------------\* \\n\* Authority Check for node LFA1 \\n\*----------------------------------------------------------\* \\n\* FORM AUTHORITY\_CHECK\_LFA1. \\n\*   AUTHORITY-CHECK ... \\n\* ENDFORM.

Like `DBTEST_LDB001` for the nodes `LFB1` and `LFC1`

\*----------------------------------------------------------\* \\n\* Call event GET BKPF \\n\*----------------------------------------------------------\* \\nFORM PUT\_BKPF. \\n\* STATICS FLAG. \\n\* IF FLAG = SPACE. \\n\*   FLAG = 'X'. \\n\*\*\* Declarations for field selection for node BKPF \*\*\* \\n\*   STATICS BKPF\_FIELDS TYPE RSFS\_TAB\_FIELDS. \\n\*   MOVE 'BKPF' TO BKPF\_FIELDS-TABLENAME. \\n\*   READ TABLE SELECT\_FIELDS WITH KEY BKPF\_FIELDS-TABLENAME \\n\*     INTO BKPF\_FIELDS. \\n\* ENDIF. \\n\* SELECT (BKPF\_FIELDS-FIELDS) INTO CORRESPONDING FIELDS OF \\n\*     BKPF / TABLE ? " (choose one of them) \\n\*     FROM BKPF \\n\*   WHERE BUKRS = LFB1-BUKRS \\n\*     AND BELNR IN SBELNR \\n\*     AND GJAHR = ?. \\n    PUT BKPF. \\nENDFORM.                               "PUT\_BKPF \\n\*----------------------------------------------------------\* \\n\* Authority Check for node BKPF \\n\*----------------------------------------------------------\* \\n\* FORM AUTHORITYCHECK\_BKPF. \\n\*   AUTHORITY-CHECK ... \\n\* ENDFORM.                             "AUTHORITY\_CHECK\_BKPF

\*----------------------------------------------------------\* \\n\* BEFORE\_EVENT will be called before event EVENT \\n\* Possible values for EVENT: 'START-OF-SELECTION' \\n\*----------------------------------------------------------\* \\n\* FORM BEFORE\_EVENT USING EVENT. \\n\*   CASE EVENT. \\n\*     WHEN 'START-OF-SELECTION' \\n\* \\n\*   ENDCASE. \\n\* ENDFORM.                             "BEFORE\_EVENT \\n\*----------------------------------------------------------\* \\n\* AFTER\_EVENT will be called after event EVENT \\n\* Possible values for EVENT: 'END-OF-SELECTION' \\n\*----------------------------------------------------------\* \\n\* FORM AFTER\_EVENT USING EVENT. \\n\*   CASE EVENT. \\n\*     WHEN 'END-OF-SELECTION' \\n\* \\n\*   ENDCASE. \\n\* ENDFORM.                             "AFTER\_EVENT \\n\*-----------------------------------------------------------\* \\n\* Initialize global data for multiple processing of \\n\* one logical database. \\n\* Set returncode: \\n\*      0 -> all data are initialized, multiple processing o.k. \\n\*  other -> no multiple processing allowed \\n\*------------------------------------------------------------\* \\nFORM  LDB\_PROCESS\_INIT CHANGING SUBRC LIKE SY-SUBRC. \\nENDFORM.                    "LDB\_PROCESS\_INIT \\n\*------------------------------------------------------------\* \\n\* LDB\_PROCESS\_CHECK\_SELECTIONS is called \\n\* after select-options and parameters are filled \\n\*------------------------------------------------------------\* \\nFORM  LDB\_PROCESS\_CHECK\_SELECTIONS CHANGING SUBRC LIKE SY-SUBRC \\n                                            MSG LIKE SYMSG. \\nENDFORM.                    "LDB\_PROCESS\_CHECK\_SELECTIONS \\n\*----------------------------------------------------------\* \\n\* Initialize selection screen (processed before PBO) \\n\*----------------------------------------------------------\* \\nFORM INIT. \\nENDFORM.                               "INIT. \\n\*----------------------------------------------------------\* \\n\* PBO of selection screen (processed always after ENTER) \\n\*----------------------------------------------------------\* \\nFORM PBO. \\nENDFORM.                               "PBO. \\n\*----------------------------------------------------------\* \\n\* PAI of selection screen (processed always after ENTER) \\n\*----------------------------------------------------------\* \\nFORM PAI USING FNAME MARK. \\n\* CASE FNAME. \\n\*   WHEN 'SLIFNR  '. \\n\*   WHEN 'SBUKRS  '. \\n\*   WHEN 'SBELNR  '. \\n\*   WHEN 'SGJAHR  '. \\n\*   WHEN '\*'. \\n\*   ENDCASE. \\nENDFORM.                               "PAI

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\* !!! PLEASE DO NOT CHANGE MANUALLY (BEGIN OF BLOCK) !!!!!! \* \\n\*-----------------------------------------------------------\* \\n\* Data structures for search pattern selection \\n\* \\n\* !!! PLEASE DO NOT CHANGE MANUALLY (END OF BLOCK) !!!!!!!! \* \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\*-----------------------------------------------------------\* \\n\* PUT\_TEST\_LDB\_SP. \\n\* Processed when search pattern selection is used, \\n\* i.e. user input into PARAMETERS p\_sp AS SEARCH PATTERN \\n\* STRUCTURE. \\n\*-----------------------------------------------------------\* \\n\* FORM PUT\_TEST\_LDB\_SP. \\n\* ENDFORM.                             "PUT\_EXAMPLE\_SP

The comment characters in front of ABAP statements that are to be used in addition to the mandatory statements can be deleted and the question marks can be replaced by appropriate expressions. The syntax check checks all include programs that match the naming conventions and also the selection include.

When the database is accessed in the subroutines `put_node`, `SELECT` statements with conditions for the primary key fields in the `WHERE` clauses are generated. The performance of these statements is, however, not yet optimized. In particular, the subroutines `put_node` of a subtree of the structure represent nested `SELECT` loops, which should generally be avoided. Instead, the data read can be buffered in internal tables, for example, and passed from here to the application program using the `PUT` statement. The statement `PUT node`, however, should always be in a subroutine whose name starts with `put_node` for technical reasons.

If the selections specify [dynamic selections](ABENLDB_FREE_SELECTIONS.html) or [field selections](ABENLDB_FIELD_SELECTIONS.html) for a node, corresponding statements are generated in the subroutine `put_node` and the `SELECT` statement created automatically is modified, as shown in the example for the node `BKPF`.

The subroutines `before_event`, `after_event`, and `put_ldb_sp` are created as a comment in the database program and can be modified and activated by deleting the asterisks. `before_event` is called before the event specified in the parameter `event` is processed. `after_event` is called after the event specified in the parameter `event` is processed. When a search help selection is made, `put_ldb_sp` is called to process the return values instead of `put_node` for the root node.

abenabap.html abenabap\_reference.html abenabap\_obsolete.html abendata\_storage\_obsolete.html abenldb.html abenldb\_examples.html