---
title: "ABENCDS_SESSION_VARIABLE_V1"
description: |
  ABENCDS_SESSION_VARIABLE_V1 - Standard ABAP language reference documentation
library: "standard"
libraryName: "Standard ABAP"
category: "cds"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_latest_index_htm/latest/en-US/ABENCDS_SESSION_VARIABLE_V1.htm"
abapFile: "ABENCDS_SESSION_VARIABLE_V1.html"
keywords: ["select", "do", "if", "case", "method", "class", "data", "ABENCDS", "SESSION", "VARIABLE"]
---

`... $session.vname ...`

Specifies a [session variable](ABENSESSION_VARIABLE_GLOSRY.html)\\ `vname` in an operand position in a [`SELECT` statement](ABENCDS_SELECT_STATEMENT_V1.html) of a [CDS DDIC-based view (obsolete)](ABENCDS_V1_VIEW_GLOSRY.html). The variable must be prefixed by `$session.`. The prefix and the variable are case-sensitive. `$session.vname`, `$Session.Vname`, and `$SESSION.VNAME` can all be used. No other spellings are allowed.

Session variables have a predefined name and are set to a predefined value when the CDS view is used in ABAP SQL. This also applies to CDS views that are used as data sources in other CDS views. The following session variables exist:

The following CDS view contains the possible session variables in the `SELECT` list. The class `CL_DEMO_CDS_SESSION_VARIABLES` uses ABAP SQL to access the view and fills the session variables with the associated values. It is possible to define whether [`USING CLIENT`](ABAPSELECT_CLIENT.html) is used or not.

The following CDS view `DEMO_CDS_SELECT_T100` accesses a further CDS view `DEMO_CDS_SELECT_T100_LANGU` with a language input parameter to which the annotation [`environment.systemField`](ABENCDS_F1_PARAMETER_ANNOTATIONS.html) with the value `system_language` is assigned. Unlike in ABAP SQL, there is no implicit pass of the actual parameter to the input parameter here and the corresponding session variable `$session.system_language` is passed instead. The class `CL_DEMO_CDS_T100` uses ABAP SQL to access both views and the result is identical. When `DEMO_CDS_SELECT_T100_LANGU` is accessed, the value of the system field `sy-langu` is passed implicitly to the input parameter. When `DEMO_CDS_SELECT_T100` is accessed, the session variable `$session.system_language` is filled with this value.

-   From a technical perspective, session variables indicate global variables of the current database that are set to their value when the CDS view is used in ABAP SQL. If ABAP SQL is not used to access a CDS view with session variables, the content of the variables is undefined (with the exception of the [SAP HANA database](ABENHANA_DATABASE_GLOSRY.html)).
-   For [input parameters](ABENCDS_PARAMETER_LIST_V1.html) of CDS views annotated with the special annotation [`environment.systemField`](ABENCDS_F1_PARAMETER_ANNOTATIONS.html), ABAP SQL can pass the values of the session variables specified here automatically too. It is generally preferable to use this type of local input parameter.
-   In existing CDS views without corresponding input parameters, session variables can be passed to the input parameters of CDS views or CDS table functions used there.
-   In the [CDS-managed DDIC view (obsolete)](ABENCDS_MNGDDDIC_VIEW_GLOSRY.html) of a [CDS DDIC-based view (obsolete)](ABENCDS_V1_VIEW_GLOSRY.html) whose [client handling](ABENCDS_VIEW_CLIENT_HANDLING_V1.html) is set by the annotation [`@ClientHandling.algorithm: #SESSION_VARIABLE`](ABENCDS_VIEW_CLIENT_HANDLING_V1.html), the value of the session variable `client` is used in `WHERE` conditions for the [client column](ABENCLIENT_COLUMN_GLOSRY.html).
-   A CDS view that accesses a session variable directly or using a view cannot usually be [buffered](ABENCDS_V1_BUFFERING.html). Only [client-dependent](ABENCDS_VIEW_CLIENT_HANDLING_V1.html) views that access the session variable `client` directly can be buffered.
-   The obsolete addition [`CLIENT SPECIFIED`](ABAPSELECT_CLIENT_OBSOLETE.html) cannot be used either.
-   On a [SAP HANA database](ABENHANA_DATABASE_GLOSRY.html) used as a [standard AS ABAP database](ABENSTANDARD_DB_GLOSRY.html), the [ABAP-specific session variables](ABENHANA_SESSION_VARIABLES.html) are called `APPLICATIONUSER`, `CDS_CLIENT`, `LOCALE_SAP`, and `SAP_SYSTEM_DATE` and exist and are set independently of ABAP CDS and ABAP SQL. They can be accessed using the database function `SESSION_CONTEXT`.
-   A further [ABAP-specific session variable](ABENHANA_SESSION_VARIABLES.html)\\ `CLIENT` in the SAP HANA database always contains the current client of the ABAP session and is not modified by the ABAP SQL addition [`USING CLIENT`](ABAPSELECT_CLIENT.html) or by ABAP calls of an [AMDP method](ABENAMDP_METHOD_GLOSRY.html) (in whose declaration the addition [`AMDP OPTIONS CDS SESSION CLIENT`](ABAPMETHODS_AMDP_OPTIONS_CLIENT.html) is specified). The HANA session variable `CLIENT` does not have a corresponding variable in ABAP CDS.
-   When the ABAP SQL statement [`SELECT`](ABAPSELECT.html) is used to access a CDS view that uses the session client `client`, the addition [`USING CLIENT`](ABAPSELECT_CLIENT.html) can be used and sets the value of the session variable `client` for the duration of the ABAP SQL statement. The additions [`USING [ALL] CLIENTS [IN]`](ABAPSELECT_CLIENT.html) cannot be used.

@AbapCatalog.sqlViewName: 'DEMO\_CDS\_SESSVAR'\\n@AccessControl.authorizationCheck: #NOT\_ALLOWED\\ndefine view demo\_cds\_session\_variables\\n as select from demo\_expressions\\n\\{\\n key id,\\n $session.user as system\_user,\\n $session.client as system\_client,\\n $session.system\_language as system\_language,\\n $session.system\_date as system\_date,\\n $session.user\_timezone as user\_timezone,\\n $session.user\_date as user\_date\\n\\}\\n @AbapCatalog.sqlViewName: 'DEMO\_CDS\_T100'\\n@AccessControl.authorizationCheck: #NOT\_REQUIRED\\ndefine view demo\_cds\_select\_t100\\n as select from\\n demo\_cds\_select\_t100\_langu( p\_langu: $session.system\_language )\\n \\{\\n \*\\n \\}\\n @AbapCatalog.sqlViewName: 'DEMO\_CDS\_T100\_LG'\\n@AccessControl.authorizationCheck: #NOT\_REQUIRED\\ndefine view demo\_cds\_select\_t100\_langu\\n with parameters\\n @Environment.systemField:#SYSTEM\_LANGUAGE\\n p\_langu : lang\\n as select from\\n t100\\n \\{\\n \*\\n \\}\\n where\\n sprsl = :p\_langu\\n and arbgb = 'SABAPDEMOS'\\n **vname** **Value when accessed using ABAP SQL**\\ `user` Current [user name](ABENUSER_NAME_GLOSRY.html), nominal value of the ABAP system field [`sy-uname`](ABENSYSTEM_FIELDS.html). The returned value has the data type `CHAR`. `client` Current [client](ABENCLIENT_GLOSRY.html). The default value is the nominal value of the ABAP system field [`sy-mandt`](ABENSYSTEM_FIELDS.html). In reads with an ABAP SQL statement (with the addition [`USING CLIENT`](ABAPSELECT_CLIENT.html)) and in calls of an [AMDP method](ABENAMDP_METHOD_GLOSRY.html) from ABAP (in whose declaration the addition [`AMDP OPTIONS CDS SESSION CLIENT`](ABAPMETHODS_AMDP_OPTIONS_CLIENT.html) is specified, the value specified here. The returned value has the data type `CLNT`, length 3. `system_language` \\ [Text environment language](ABENTEXT_ENV_LANGU_GLOSRY.html) of the current [internal session](ABENINTERNAL_SESSION_GLOSRY.html), nominal value of the ABAP system field [`sy-langu`](ABENSYSTEM_FIELDS.html). The returned value has the data type `LANG`, length 1. `system_date` Current [system date](ABENSYSTEM_DATE_GLOSRY.html) of the AS ABAP, nominal value of the ABAP system field [`sy-datum`](ABENSYSTEM_FIELDS.html). The returned value has the data type `DATS`, length 8. `user_timezone` [User time zone](ABENUSER_TIME_ZONE_GLOSRY.html), nominal value of the ABAP system field [`sy-zonlo`](ABENSYSTEM_FIELDS.html). The returned value has the data type `CHAR`, length 6. `user_date` Current [user date](ABENUSER_DATE_GLOSRY.html), nominal value of the ABAP system field [`sy-datlo`](ABENSYSTEM_FIELDS.html). The returned value is of data type `DATS`, length 8. abenabap.html abencds.html abencds\_obsolete.html abencds\_entities\_obsolete.html abencds\_ddic\_entity.html abencds\_v1\_views.html abencds\_define\_view\_v1.html abencds\_select\_statement\_v1.html abencds\_operands\_and\_expr\_v1.html abencds\_operands\_v1.html