---
title: "ABENRAP_EVENTS_LOCAL_CONSUME_ABEXA"
description: |
  ABENRAP_EVENTS_LOCAL_CONSUME_ABEXA - Standard ABAP language reference documentation
library: "standard"
libraryName: "Standard ABAP"
category: "general"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_latest_index_htm/latest/en-US/ABENRAP_EVENTS_LOCAL_CONSUME_ABEXA.htm"
abapFile: "ABENRAP_EVENTS_LOCAL_CONSUME_ABEXA.html"
keywords: ["select", "insert", "update", "delete", "do", "if", "try", "method", "class", "data", "internal-table", "ABENRAP", "EVENTS", "LOCAL", "CONSUME", "ABEXA"]
---

This example demonstrates the local consumption of [RAP business events](ABENRAP_ENTITY_EVENT_GLOSRY.html) using a [managed RAP business object](ABENMANAGED_RAP_BO_GLOSRY.html). **Note:** Since the example uses the Business Application Log, your user must have the required authorization to read from the log. An authorization is required for the following authorization field values: *ALG\_OBJECT*, *ALG\_SUBOBJ*, *ACTVT* (the latter must be *03*).

**Data model**

The CDS data model consists of the root entity `DEMO_RAP_EVENT_M`.

Root entity:

**Behavior definition**

The [RAP behavior definition](ABENCDS_BEHAVIOR_DEFINITION_GLOSRY.html)\\ `DEMO_RAP_EVENT_M` is defined in [RAP BDL](ABENCDS_BDL_GLOSRY.html) as follows:

**Behavior implementation**

For the above RAP behavior definition, one [ABP](ABENBEHAVIOR_POOL_GLOSRY.html) is created. The global class of the behavior pool is `BP_DEMO_RAP_EVENT_M`. The actual behavior implementation takes place in local classes that are defined and implemented in the `BP_DEMO_RAP_EVENT_M===========CCIMP` of the behavior pool.

**RAP event handler class**

The global class of the RAP event handler class is `CL_DEMO_RAP_EVENT_HANDLER`. The events are handled in the `CL_DEMO_RAP_EVENT_HANDLER=====CCIMP`.

**Access with ABAP using EML**

The above source code uses [EML](ABENEML_GLOSRY.html) to access the RAP business object from an ABAP class.

The example contains three ABAP EML modify requests: a RAP create, update and delete operation. For each of the operations, an event is raised using a [`RAISE ENTITY EVENT`](ABAPRAISE_ENTITY_EVENT.html) statement. The events are raised in the [`save_modified`](ABAPRAP_SAVER_METH_SAVE_MODIFIED.html) RAP saver method.

When the events are raised, the [RAP event handler methods](ABENRAP_EVENT_HANDLER_METH_GLOSRY.html), which are implemented in the CCIMP include of the `CL_DEMO_RAP_EVENT_HANDLER` class, are called asynchronously. To demonstrate the effect of the events, messages are created and added to the Business Application Log.

In the output of the example, the content of an internal table is displayed that demonstrates the effect of the RAP operations. The internal table is filled by selecting from the database table where the [RAP BO instances](ABENRAP_BO_INSTANCE_GLOSRY.html) are persisted to. Additionally, the content of an internal table is displayed including the messages that have been inserted into the Business Application Log by the event handler methods.

@AccessControl.authorizationCheck: #NOT\_REQUIRED\\ndefine root view entity demo\_rap\_event\_m as select from demo\_tab\_root\_5 \\{\\n key key\_field,\\n field1,\\n field2,\\n field3,\\n field4\\n\\}\\n // Note:\\n// The RAP event handler class for this example is the class\\n// cl\_demo\_rap\_event\_handler. In the CCIMP include of the class,\\n// the RAP event handler methods are implemented.\\n\\nmanaged with additional save with full data\\nimplementation in class bp\_demo\_rap\_event\_m unique;\\nstrict ( 2 );\\n\\ndefine behavior for demo\_rap\_event\_m\\npersistent table demo\_tab\_root\_5\\nlock master\\nauthorization master ( global )\\n\\n\\{\\n create;\\n update;\\n delete;\\n event created;\\n event updated parameter DEMO\_ABSTRACT\_ROOT\_1;\\n event deleted parameter DEMO\_ABSTRACT\_ROOT\_1;\\n field ( readonly : update ) key\_field;\\n\\} \* Public class definition \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\* Note: \\n\* \\n\* - The RAP event handler class for this example is the class \\n\* cl\_demo\_rap\_event\_handler. In the CCIMP include of the class, \\n\* the RAP event handler methods are implemented. \\n\* \\n\* - The RAP business events in this example are raised using RAISE \\n\* ENTITY EVENT statements in the save\_modified saver method that \\n\* is implemented in the CCIMP include of the ABAP behavior pool \\n\* bp\_demo\_rap\_event\_m. \\n\* \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_events DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n METHODS constructor. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_events IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n out->begin\_section( \`RAP Demo: Local Consumption of \` && \\n \`RAP Business Events (Business Application Log)\` ). \\n\\ \\n "RAP create operation \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_rap\_event\_m \\n CREATE FIELDS ( key\_field field1 field2 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( ( %cid = 'cid1' \\n key\_field = 1 \\n field1 = 'aaa' \\n field2 = 'bbb' \\n field3 = 11 \\n field4 = 111 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid2' \\n key\_field = 2 \\n field1 = 'ccc' \\n field2 = 'ddd' \\n field3 = 22 \\n field4 = 222 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid3' \\n key\_field = 3 \\n field1 = 'eee' \\n field2 = 'fff' \\n field3 = 33 \\n field4 = 333 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid4' \\n key\_field = 4 \\n field1 = 'ggg' \\n field2 = 'hhh' \\n field3 = 44 \\n field4 = 444 ) ) \\n FAILED DATA(f1). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "RAP update operation \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_rap\_event\_m \\n UPDATE FIELDS ( field1 field2 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( ( key\_field = 2 \\n field1 = 'iii\_up' \\n field2 = 'jjj\_up' \\n field3 = 222 \\n field4 = 22 ) \\n ( key\_field = 3 \\n field1 = 'kkk\_up' \\n field2 = 'lll\_up' \\n field3 = 333 \\n field4 = 33 ) ) \\n FAILED DATA(f2). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "RAP delete operation \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_rap\_event\_m \\n DELETE FROM VALUE #( ( key\_field = 4 ) ) \\n FAILED DATA(f3). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "Note: Due to the asynchronous call of the events, a WAIT statement \\n "is included to wait for messages that are raised by events to be \\n "written to the business application log so that they can be \\n "displayed here. \\n\\ \\n WAIT UP TO 3 SECONDS. \\n\\ \\n "Retrieving persisted instances \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, field3, field4 \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_5 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @DATA(dbtab\_entries). \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`Database table entries after the RAP operations\` \\n )->write( dbtab\_entries ). \\n\\ \\n "Getting messages from the business application log to demonstrate \\n "that the event handler methods have been called \\n DATA(log) = cl\_demo\_rap\_event\_handler=>get\_log( ). \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`Business application log entries created by the \` && \\n \`raised events\` \\n )->write( log ). \\n\\ \\n IF lines( log ) < 7. \\n out->write( \`Note: Not all RAP business events raised in this \` && \\n \`example could be retrieved. Try and run the example again.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD constructor. \\n super->constructor( ). \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_root\_5. "#EC CI\_NOWHERE \\n "Deleting existing messages from the business application log \\n cl\_demo\_rap\_event\_handler=>delete\_log( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. \* Public class definition \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\* Note: \\n\* \\n\* - The RAP event handler class for this example is the class \\n\* cl\_demo\_rap\_event\_handler. In the CCIMP include of the class, \\n\* the RAP event handler methods are implemented. \\n\* \\n\* - The RAP business events in this example are raised using RAISE \\n\* ENTITY EVENT statements in the save\_modified saver method that \\n\* is implemented in the CCIMP include of the ABAP behavior pool \\n\* bp\_demo\_rap\_event\_m. \\n\* \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_events DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n METHODS constructor. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_events IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n out->begin\_section( \`RAP Demo: Local Consumption of \` && \\n \`RAP Business Events (Business Application Log)\` ). \\n\\ \\n "RAP create operation \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_rap\_event\_m \\n CREATE FIELDS ( key\_field field1 field2 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( ( %cid = 'cid1' \\n key\_field = 1 \\n field1 = 'aaa' \\n field2 = 'bbb' \\n field3 = 11 \\n field4 = 111 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid2' \\n key\_field = 2 \\n field1 = 'ccc' \\n field2 = 'ddd' \\n field3 = 22 \\n field4 = 222 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid3' \\n key\_field = 3 \\n field1 = 'eee' \\n field2 = 'fff' \\n field3 = 33 \\n field4 = 333 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid4' \\n key\_field = 4 \\n field1 = 'ggg' \\n field2 = 'hhh' \\n field3 = 44 \\n field4 = 444 ) ) \\n FAILED DATA(f1). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "RAP update operation \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_rap\_event\_m \\n UPDATE FIELDS ( field1 field2 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( ( key\_field = 2 \\n field1 = 'iii\_up' \\n field2 = 'jjj\_up' \\n field3 = 222 \\n field4 = 22 ) \\n ( key\_field = 3 \\n field1 = 'kkk\_up' \\n field2 = 'lll\_up' \\n field3 = 333 \\n field4 = 33 ) ) \\n FAILED DATA(f2). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "RAP delete operation \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_rap\_event\_m \\n DELETE FROM VALUE #( ( key\_field = 4 ) ) \\n FAILED DATA(f3). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n "Note: Due to the asynchronous call of the events, a WAIT statement \\n "is included to wait for messages that are raised by events to be \\n "written to the business application log so that they can be \\n "displayed here. \\n\\ \\n WAIT UP TO 3 SECONDS. \\n\\ \\n "Retrieving persisted instances \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, field3, field4 \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_5 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @DATA(dbtab\_entries). \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`Database table entries after the RAP operations\` \\n )->write( dbtab\_entries ). \\n\\ \\n "Getting messages from the business application log to demonstrate \\n "that the event handler methods have been called \\n DATA(log) = cl\_demo\_rap\_event\_handler=>get\_log( ). \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`Business application log entries created by the \` && \\n \`raised events\` \\n )->write( log ). \\n\\ \\n IF lines( log ) < 7. \\n out->write( \`Note: Not all RAP business events raised in this \` && \\n \`example could be retrieved. Try and run the example again.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD constructor. \\n super->constructor( ). \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_root\_5. "#EC CI\_NOWHERE \\n "Deleting existing messages from the business application log \\n cl\_demo\_rap\_event\_handler=>delete\_log( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. abenabap.html abenabap\_rap.html abenabap\_for\_rap\_bos.html abenrap\_events.html