---
title: "ABENLOGEXP_STRINGS"
description: |
  ABENLOGEXP_STRINGS - Standard ABAP language reference documentation
library: "standard"
libraryName: "Standard ABAP"
category: "general"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_latest_index_htm/latest/en-US/ABENLOGEXP_STRINGS.htm"
abapFile: "ABENLOGEXP_STRINGS.html"
keywords: ["do", "if", "case", "data", "types", "ABENLOGEXP", "STRINGS"]
---

The following table shows the comparison operators for comparisons between character-like operands (single data objects and return values or [string expressions](ABENSTRING_EXPRESSION_GLOSRY.html)) in [comparison expressions](ABENCOMPARISON_EXPRESSION_GLOSRY.html). Trailing blanks are respected for operands of type `string`. Unless documented differently in the following table, trailing blanks are not respected for operands of types `c`, `d`, `n`, and `t`.

Search for HTML tags in a text using the operator `CP`. This search finds the first HTML tag *<i>* at offset 8. It should be noted that it is not sufficient to specify a search pattern *<\*>*, since `CP` stands for Conforms to Pattern and not for Contains Pattern. The example also shows that the leading wildcard characters *\** of the pattern are ignored in `sy-fdpos`, to determine the occurrence found by this search.

Display of the first position of a letter in a field. The operator `CS` is used in the conditional operator [`COND`](ABENCONDITIONAL_EXPRESSION_COND.html), which returns the content of the system field `sy-fdpos`.

The following comparison is always true, regardless of the input.

[Comparison Operators for Character-Like Data Types](ABENCHARACTER_COMPARISONS_ABEXA.html)

-   For the operators `CP` and `NP`, multiple wildcard characters *\** one after another have the same effect as the specification of a single wildcard *\** character. The wildcard character *+* does not represent an empty string.
-   When using the operators `CP` and `NP`, patterns without wildcard characters in `operand2` are generally not useful. Instead, a comparison with [`=`](ABENLOGEXP_ANY_OPERAND.html) can be performed. In order to achieve case-insensitivity for comparisons with `=`, it is recommended using either [`to_upper`](ABENCASE_FUNCTIONS.html) or [`to_lower`](ABENCASE_FUNCTIONS.html) for both operands.
-   Operands of byte-like data types cannot be compared using the comparison operators from this table. To perform corresponding comparisons for byte-like operands, [comparison operators for byte-like data types](ABENLOGEXP_BYTES.html) can be used.
-   Instead of the comparison operators in this table [predicate functions](ABENCHAR_COMP_OP_VS_FUNCT.html) can also be used.
-   The statement [`FIND`](ABAPFIND.html) and the search functions [`find`](ABENSEARCH_FUNCTIONS.html) can be quicker than the comparison operator `CS` by some magnitude.
-   When using comparison operators for character-like data types in a [conditional expression](ABENCONDITIONAL_EXPRESSION_GLOSRY.html) or in a [Boolean function](ABENBOOLE_FUNCTION_GLOSRY.html), the system field `sy-fdpos` has the value set in the expression once the expression is processed.

DATA html TYPE string. \\n\\ \\nhtml = \`This is *italic*!\`. \\n\\ \\nIF html CP '\*<\*>\*'. \\n cl\_demo\_output=>display\_text( |Found HTML tag at \\{ sy-fdpos \\}| ). \\nENDIF. FINAL(abcde) = \`abcdefghijlmnopqrstuvwxyz\`. \\ncl\_demo\_output=>display( COND #( WHEN abcde CS 'H' THEN sy-fdpos ) ). DATA(text) = \`abcd1234\`. \\ncl\_demo\_input=>request( CHANGING field = text ). \\n\\ \\nIF \`\` CO text. \\n cl\_demo\_output=>display( 'true' ). \\nENDIF. **operator** **Meaning** `CO` Contains Only: True if `operand1` only contains characters from `operand2`. Uppercase and lowercase characters and trailing blanks are respected for both operands. If `operand2` is of type `string` and initial, the comparison expression is false, unless `operand1` is also of type `string` and initial, in which case the comparison expression is always true, regardless of `operand2`. If the comparison is false, `sy-fdpos` contains the offset of the first character in `operand1` that is not contained in `operand2`. If the comparison is true, `sy-fdpos` contains the length of `operand1`. `CN` Contains Not Only: True, if a comparison expression with `CO` is false, that is if `operand1` contains not only characters from `operand2`. `sy-fdpos` is set in the same way as for `CO`. If the comparison is true, `sy-fdpos` contains the offset of the first character in `operand1` that is not contained in `operand2`. If the comparison is false, `sy-fdpos` contains the length of `operand1`. `CA` Contains Any: True, if `operand1` contains at least one character from `operand2`. Uppercase and lowercase characters and trailing blanks are respected for both operands. If `operand1` or `operand2` is of type `string` and initial, the comparison expression is always false. If the comparison is true, `sy-fdpos` contains the offset of the first character in `operand1` that is also contained in `operand2`. If the comparison is false, `sy-fdpos` contains the length of `operand1`. `NA` Contains Not Any: True, if a comparison expression with `CA` is false, that is, `operand1` does not contain any characters from `operand2`. If the comparison is false, `sy-fdpos` contains the offset of the first character in `operand1` that is also contained in `operand2`. If the comparison is true, `sy-fdpos` contains the length of `operand1`. `CS` Contains String: True, if the content of `operand2` is contained in `operand1`. Trailing blanks in the left operand are respected. If `operand1` is of type `string` and initial, or of type `c` and contains only blank characters, the comparison expression is false, unless `operand2` is also of type `string` and initial, or of type `c` and only contains blank characters, in which case, the comparison expression is always true. If the comparison is true, `sy-fdpos` contains the offset of `operand2` in `operand1`. If the comparison is false, `sy-fdpos` contains the length of `operand1`. `NS` Contains No String: True, if a comparison expression with `CS` is false, that is if `operand1` does not contain the content of `operand2`. If the comparison is false, `sy-fdpos` contains the offset of `operand2` in `operand1`. If the comparison is true, `sy-fdpos` contains the length of `operand1`. `CP` Conforms to Pattern: True, if the content of `operand1` matches the pattern in `operand2`. Wildcard characters can be used to form the `operand2` pattern, where *\** represents any character string, including an empty string, and *+* represents any character. It is not case-sensitive. Trailing blanks in the left operand are respected. If the comparison is true, `sy-fdpos` contains the offset of `operand2` in `operand1`, whereby leading wildcard characters *\** in `operand2` are ignored if `operand2` also contains other characters. If the comparison is false, `sy-fdpos` contains the length of `operand1`. Characters in `operand2` can be marked for direct comparisons by prefixing them with the [escape character](ABENESCAPE_CHARACTER_GLOSRY.html)\\ *#*. For such characters in `operand2`, the operator is case-sensitive, wildcard characters and the escape character are not subject to special handling and trailing blanks are relevant. `NP` Does Not Conform to Pattern: True, if a comparison expression with `CP` is false, that is, `operand1` does not fit the pattern in `operand2`. If the comparison is false, `sy-fdpos` contains the offset of `operand2` in `operand1`, whereby leading wildcard characters *\** in `operand2` are ignored if `operand2` also contains other characters. If the comparison is true, `sy-fdpos` contains the length of `operand1`. abenabap.html abenabap\_reference.html abenabap\_flow\_logic.html abenlogical\_expr\_func.html abenlogexp.html abenlogexp\_comp.html abenlogexp\_op.html