---
title: "ABENDERIVED_TYPES_PRE_TMP_ABEXA"
description: |
  ABENDERIVED_TYPES_PRE_TMP_ABEXA - Standard ABAP language reference documentation
library: "standard"
libraryName: "Standard ABAP"
category: "types"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_latest_index_htm/latest/en-US/ABENDERIVED_TYPES_PRE_TMP_ABEXA.htm"
abapFile: "ABENDERIVED_TYPES_PRE_TMP_ABEXA.html"
keywords: ["select", "update", "delete", "loop", "do", "if", "case", "method", "class", "data", "types", "internal-table", "ABENDERIVED", "TYPES", "PRE", "TMP", "ABEXA"]
---

This example demonstrates the use of `%pre`, `%tmp` and `%pky` with an [unmanaged RAP BO](ABENUNMANAGED_RAP_BO_GLOSRY.html) in a [`late numbering`](ABENBDL_LATE_NUMBERING.html) scenario.

Note that this example does not cover a production business scenario for late numbering. Instead it is intended to give an idea about the use of the BDEF derived type components.

**Data model**

The CDS data model consists of the root entity `DEMO_UMANAGED_ROOT_LATE_NUM3`.

Root entity:

**Behavior definition**

The [RAP behavior definition](ABENCDS_BEHAVIOR_DEFINITION_GLOSRY.html)\\ `DEMO_UMANAGED_ROOT_LATE_NUM3` is defined in [RAP BDL](ABENCDS_BDL_GLOSRY.html) as follows:

**Behavior implementation**

For the above RAP behavior definition, one [ABP](ABENBEHAVIOR_POOL_GLOSRY.html) is created. The global class of the behavior pool is `BP_DEMO_UMANAGED_ROOT_LATE_NU3`. The actual behavior implementation takes place in local classes that are defined and implemented in the `BP_DEMO_UMANAGED_ROOT_LATE_NU3CCIMP` of the behavior pool.

The following class is relevant for the example:

The following methods are relevant for the example:

**Access with ABAP using EML**

There are two ABAP EML modify requests. The first creates multiple [RAP BO instances](ABENRAP_BO_INSTANCE_GLOSRY.html) and the second updates the new instances.

In the create request, `%key` is not specified. The `create` method creates `%pid` and `%key` for the instances.

The update request includes the modification of the previously created instances that have not yet been persisted to the database. The reference to the instances is made by using `%pky`. `%pky` contains `%pid` and the preliminary keys in `%key`. Note that this is a non-draft scenario, hence, `%pky` can be used. `%tky` could be used as well. It is even recommended that you use it since you are prepared for a potential switch to a draft scenario (here, `%tky` contains the same components as `%pky` but, if need be, it also includes `%is_draft`).

The save sequence is triggered using a [`COMMIT ENTITIES`](ABAPCOMMIT_ENTITIES.html) statement. In this case, the `COMMIT ENTITIES` variant is used with a `CONVERT KEY OF` statement to retrieve the preliminary keys of the instances for demonstration purposes.

The [`adjust_numbers`](ABENSAVER_ADJUST_NUMBERS.html) method assigns the final keys to the instances. In this example, the method simply adds an integer to the key. Furthermore, the internal tables in the global class mentioned above are filled demonstrating how `%pre` and `%tmp` might be addressed. Finally, the `save` method saves the instances to the database table.

The output shows three tables:

-   `lcl_buffer`: Constitutes the [transactional buffer](ABENTRANSACTIONAL_BUFFER_GLOSRY.html) which is an internal table in this example. It contains all fields of the database table and further fields that are used in the example, for example, the internal table also contains the components [`%pid`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_PID.html) and [`%cid`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_CID.html). Furthermore, there are components representing flags like `changed` and `final_key_assigned`. The first one is used to flag whether an instance has been created or changed and thus should be saved. The second specifies whether final keys have been assigned to the instance.

-   `create`: Creates the instances and writes them to the transactional buffer. In this case, a `%pid` as well as a preliminary value for [`%key`](ABAPDERIVED_TYPES_KEY.html) is created for the instances.
-   `update`: Updates instances. Here, the use cases are covered when instances are updated that already have the final keys assigned and have not.
-   `prep_root_buffer`: Prepares the transactional buffer. In case of an update request on persisted instances, these instances are read from the database table into the transactional buffer.
-   [`adjust_numbers`](ABENSAVER_ADJUST_NUMBERS.html): Assigns the final keys. In this simple example, the final keys are assigned integers. Furthermore, the [`MAPPED LATE`](ABAPTYPE_RESPONSE_FOR.html), which shows `%pre` and `%tmp`, and [`REPORTED LATE`](ABAPTYPE_RESPONSE_FOR.html) response structures are filled. For demonstration purposes, the entries for both structures are stored in two internal tables that are displayed in the output.
-   The [`save`](ABENSAVER_METHOD_SAVE.html), [`cleanup`](ABENSAVER_METHOD_CLEANUP.html) and [`cleanup_finalize`](ABAPSAVER_CLASS_CLEANUP_FINALIZE.html) methods save the entries in the transactional buffer to the database table or clearing the entries respectively.

1.  A table that displays the outcome of the RAP operations, i. e. the successfully saved entries in the database table.
2.  A table showing the [`MAPPED LATE`](ABAPTYPE_RESPONSE_FOR.html) information.
3.  A table showing the [`REPORTED LATE`](ABAPTYPE_RESPONSE_FOR.html) information. Both mapped and reported information were filled in the course of the `adjust_numbers` method.

@AccessControl.authorizationCheck: #NOT\_REQUIRED\\ndefine root view entity DEMO\_UMANAGED\_ROOT\_LATE\_NUM3\\n as select from demo\_tab\_root\_3\\n \\{\\n key key\_field,\\n field1,\\n field2,\\n field3,\\n field4\\n \\}\\n\\n unmanaged implementation in class\\n bp\_demo\_umanaged\_root\_late\_nu3 unique;\\nstrict(2);\\n\\ndefine behavior for DEMO\_UMANAGED\_ROOT\_LATE\_NUM3\\nlate numbering\\nlock master\\nauthorization master ( global )\\n\\{\\n create;\\n update;\\n delete;\\n field ( readonly ) key\_field;\\n\\} \* Public class definition \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_drvd\_types\_latenu2 DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n METHODS constructor. \\n\\ \\n PRIVATE SECTION. \\n TYPES: ls\_mapped TYPE STRUCTURE FOR MAPPED \\n demo\_umanaged\_root\_late\_num3, \\n BEGIN OF ls\_keys, \\n pid TYPE abp\_behv\_pid, \\n tmp\_key TYPE i, \\n key\_field TYPE i, \\n END OF ls\_keys. \\n DATA: \\n mapped\_early TYPE RESPONSE FOR MAPPED EARLY \\n demo\_umanaged\_root\_late\_num3, \\n failed\_early TYPE RESPONSE FOR FAILED EARLY \\n demo\_umanaged\_root\_late\_num3, \\n reported\_early TYPE RESPONSE FOR REPORTED EARLY \\n demo\_umanaged\_root\_late\_num3, \\n lt\_mapped\_late\_content TYPE TABLE FOR MAPPED LATE \\n demo\_umanaged\_root\_late\_num3, \\n lt\_keys TYPE TABLE OF ls\_keys. \\n METHODS: \\n initialize\_dbtabs. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_drvd\_types\_latenu2 IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n out->begin\_section( \`Demo for BDEF derived type components: \` && \\n \`%pre / %tmp / %pky\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_umanaged\_root\_late\_num3 \\n CREATE FIELDS ( field1 field2 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid1' field1 = 'aaa' field2 = 'bbb' \\n field3 = 10 field4 = 11 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid2' field1 = 'bbb' field2 = 'ccc' \\n field3 = 12 field4 = 13 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid3' field1 = 'ddd' field2 = 'eee' \\n field3 = 14 field4 = 15 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid4' field1 = 'fff' field2 = 'ggg' \\n field3 = 16 field4 = 17 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid5' field1 = 'hhh' field2 = 'iii' \\n field3 = 18 field4 = 19 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid6' field1 = 'jjj' field2 = 'kkk' \\n field3 = 20 field4 = 21 ) \\n\\ \\n ) \\n MAPPED mapped\_early \\n FAILED failed\_early \\n REPORTED reported\_early. \\n\\ \\n "Note: This is a non-draft scenario, hence, %pky can be used to \\n "refer to the preliminary keys and %pid (%pky contains %pid and \\n "%key). %tky could be used as well. It is even recommended that \\n "you use it since you are prepared for a potential switch to a \\n "draft scenario (here, %tky contains the same components as \\n "%pky, but if need be, also %is\_draft). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_umanaged\_root\_late\_num3 \\n UPDATE FIELDS ( field1 field3 ) WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %pky = mapped\_early-demo\_umanaged\_root\_late\_num3\[ 1 \]-%pky \\n field1 = 'up1' field3 = 100 ) \\n ( %pky = mapped\_early-demo\_umanaged\_root\_late\_num3\[ 2 \]-%pky \\n field1 = 'up2' field3 = 200 ) \\n ( %pky = mapped\_early-demo\_umanaged\_root\_late\_num3\[ 3 \]-%pky \\n field1 = 'up3' field3 = 300 ) ) \\n FAILED failed\_early \\n REPORTED reported\_early. \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES BEGIN RESPONSES FAILED FINAL(failed\_late) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported\_late). \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n LOOP AT mapped\_early-demo\_umanaged\_root\_late\_num3 \\n ASSIGNING FIELD-SYMBOL(). \\n\\ \\n CONVERT KEY OF demo\_umanaged\_root\_late\_num3 \\n FROM TEMPORARY VALUE #( %pid = \-%pid \\n %tmp = \-%key ) \\n TO FINAL(lv\_final\_key). \\n\\ \\n APPEND VALUE #( %pid = \-%pid \\n %tmp = \-%key \\n %key = lv\_final\_key ) \\n TO lt\_mapped\_late\_content. \\n ENDLOOP. \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES END. \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, field3, field4 \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_3 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(itab). \\n\\ \\n out->write( \\n \`Database table entries after the operations:\` \\n )->write( itab \\n ). \\n\\ \\n IF reported\_late IS NOT INITIAL. \\n out->write\_doc( \`MAPPED LATE response:\` \\n )->write( lt\_mapped\_late\_content ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n IF failed\_late IS NOT INITIAL. \\n out->write\_doc( \`FAILED LATE response:\` \\n )->write( failed\_late ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n IF reported\_late IS NOT INITIAL. \\n out->write\_doc( \`REPORTED LATE response:\` \\n )->write( reported\_late ). \\n ENDIF. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD initialize\_dbtabs. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_root\_3. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD constructor. \\n super->constructor( ). \\n initialize\_dbtabs( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. \* Public class definition \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_drvd\_types\_latenu2 DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n METHODS constructor. \\n\\ \\n PRIVATE SECTION. \\n TYPES: ls\_mapped TYPE STRUCTURE FOR MAPPED \\n demo\_umanaged\_root\_late\_num3, \\n BEGIN OF ls\_keys, \\n pid TYPE abp\_behv\_pid, \\n tmp\_key TYPE i, \\n key\_field TYPE i, \\n END OF ls\_keys. \\n DATA: \\n mapped\_early TYPE RESPONSE FOR MAPPED EARLY \\n demo\_umanaged\_root\_late\_num3, \\n failed\_early TYPE RESPONSE FOR FAILED EARLY \\n demo\_umanaged\_root\_late\_num3, \\n reported\_early TYPE RESPONSE FOR REPORTED EARLY \\n demo\_umanaged\_root\_late\_num3, \\n lt\_mapped\_late\_content TYPE TABLE FOR MAPPED LATE \\n demo\_umanaged\_root\_late\_num3, \\n lt\_keys TYPE TABLE OF ls\_keys. \\n METHODS: \\n initialize\_dbtabs. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_drvd\_types\_latenu2 IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n out->begin\_section( \`Demo for BDEF derived type components: \` && \\n \`%pre / %tmp / %pky\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_umanaged\_root\_late\_num3 \\n CREATE FIELDS ( field1 field2 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid1' field1 = 'aaa' field2 = 'bbb' \\n field3 = 10 field4 = 11 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid2' field1 = 'bbb' field2 = 'ccc' \\n field3 = 12 field4 = 13 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid3' field1 = 'ddd' field2 = 'eee' \\n field3 = 14 field4 = 15 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid4' field1 = 'fff' field2 = 'ggg' \\n field3 = 16 field4 = 17 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid5' field1 = 'hhh' field2 = 'iii' \\n field3 = 18 field4 = 19 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid6' field1 = 'jjj' field2 = 'kkk' \\n field3 = 20 field4 = 21 ) \\n\\ \\n ) \\n MAPPED mapped\_early \\n FAILED failed\_early \\n REPORTED reported\_early. \\n\\ \\n "Note: This is a non-draft scenario, hence, %pky can be used to \\n "refer to the preliminary keys and %pid (%pky contains %pid and \\n "%key). %tky could be used as well. It is even recommended that \\n "you use it since you are prepared for a potential switch to a \\n "draft scenario (here, %tky contains the same components as \\n "%pky, but if need be, also %is\_draft). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_umanaged\_root\_late\_num3 \\n UPDATE FIELDS ( field1 field3 ) WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %pky = mapped\_early-demo\_umanaged\_root\_late\_num3\[ 1 \]-%pky \\n field1 = 'up1' field3 = 100 ) \\n ( %pky = mapped\_early-demo\_umanaged\_root\_late\_num3\[ 2 \]-%pky \\n field1 = 'up2' field3 = 200 ) \\n ( %pky = mapped\_early-demo\_umanaged\_root\_late\_num3\[ 3 \]-%pky \\n field1 = 'up3' field3 = 300 ) ) \\n FAILED failed\_early \\n REPORTED reported\_early. \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES BEGIN RESPONSES FAILED FINAL(failed\_late) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported\_late). \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write\_doc( \`An issue occurred in the RAP save sequence.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n LOOP AT mapped\_early-demo\_umanaged\_root\_late\_num3 \\n ASSIGNING FIELD-SYMBOL(). \\n\\ \\n CONVERT KEY OF demo\_umanaged\_root\_late\_num3 \\n FROM TEMPORARY VALUE #( %pid = \-%pid \\n %tmp = \-%key ) \\n TO FINAL(lv\_final\_key). \\n\\ \\n APPEND VALUE #( %pid = \-%pid \\n %tmp = \-%key \\n %key = lv\_final\_key ) \\n TO lt\_mapped\_late\_content. \\n ENDLOOP. \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES END. \\n\\ \\n SELECT key\_field, field1, field2, field3, field4 \\n FROM demo\_tab\_root\_3 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(itab). \\n\\ \\n out->write( \\n \`Database table entries after the operations:\` \\n )->write( itab \\n ). \\n\\ \\n IF reported\_late IS NOT INITIAL. \\n out->write\_doc( \`MAPPED LATE response:\` \\n )->write( lt\_mapped\_late\_content ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n IF failed\_late IS NOT INITIAL. \\n out->write\_doc( \`FAILED LATE response:\` \\n )->write( failed\_late ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n IF reported\_late IS NOT INITIAL. \\n out->write\_doc( \`REPORTED LATE response:\` \\n )->write( reported\_late ). \\n ENDIF. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD initialize\_dbtabs. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_root\_3. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD constructor. \\n super->constructor( ). \\n initialize\_dbtabs( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. abenabap.html abenabap\_rap.html abenabap\_for\_rap\_bos.html abenrpm\_derived\_types.html abapderived\_types\_comp.html abenderived\_types\_abexas.html