---
title: "ABENRAP_LUW_ABEXA"
description: |
  ABENRAP_LUW_ABEXA - Standard ABAP language reference documentation
library: "standard"
libraryName: "Standard ABAP"
category: "general"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_latest_index_htm/latest/en-US/ABENRAP_LUW_ABEXA.htm"
abapFile: "ABENRAP_LUW_ABEXA.html"
keywords: ["select", "update", "delete", "do", "if", "case", "method", "class", "data", "internal-table", "ABENRAP", "LUW", "ABEXA"]
---

This example demonstrates the transactional phases of a [RAP transaction](ABENRAP_LUW_GLOSRY.html) using an [unmanaged](ABENBDL_IMPL_TYPE.html)\\ [RAP business object](ABENRAP_BO_GLOSRY.html) with [late numbering](ABENRAP_LATE_NUMBERING_GLOSRY.html).

**Data model**

The CDS data model consists of the root entity `DEMO_RAP_LUW_LN_U`.

Root entity:

**Behavior definition**

The [RAP behavior definition](ABENCDS_BEHAVIOR_DEFINITION_GLOSRY.html)\\ `DEMO_RAP_LUW_LN_U` is defined in [RAP BDL](ABENCDS_BDL_GLOSRY.html) as follows:

**Behavior implementation**

For the above RAP behavior definition, one [ABP](ABENBEHAVIOR_POOL_GLOSRY.html) is created. The global class of the behavior pool is `BP_DEMO_RAP_LUW_LN_U`. The actual behavior implementation takes place in local classes that are defined and implemented in the `BP_DEMO_RAP_LUW_LN_U==========CCIMP` of the behavior pool.

**Access with ABAP using EML**

The above source code uses [EML](ABENEML_GLOSRY.html) to access the RAP business object from an ABAP class.

The class demonstrates the following:

-   A successful save, i.e. the interaction phase and the [RAP save sequence](ABENRAP_SAVE_SEQ_GLOSRY.html) have been processed successfully. Two [RAP BO instances](ABENRAP_BO_INSTANCE_GLOSRY.html) are created. A `COMMIT ENTITIES` statement triggers the save sequence. The value of `sy-subrc` is displayed after the commit. During the execution of the method implementation code in the ABP, an internal table is populated that stores the following information: position of the method call sequence, name of the method, if there is an error, a flag for the interaction, early, or late save phase. This table is displayed as well as the entries of the database table as a result of the RAP create operation.
-   Failure in the `finalize` method: An instance is created. The same steps are taken as described above. In this case, the failure in the `finalize` method triggers the call of the `cleanup_finalize` method. `sy-subrc` is set to 4 after the commit. There is then another RAP create operation on the [RAP BO consumer](ABENRAP_BO_CONSUMER_GLOSRY.html). This time, the RAP transaction is completed with a successful save.
-   Failure in the `check_before_save` method: The steps are the same as described above. A failure also triggers the `cleanup_finalize` method. In all other examples, this method is not called. It is only called if an error occurs in the `finalize` or `check_before_save` method.
-   Rollback. This example has no `COMMIT ENTITIES` statement. The purpose is to demonstrate that the `ROLLBACK ENTITIES` statement only triggers the call of the `cleanup` method in the [RAP saver class](ABENABP_SAVER_CLASS_GLOSRY.html).

@AccessControl.authorizationCheck: #NOT\_REQUIRED\\ndefine root view entity DEMO\_RAP\_LUW\_LN\_U\\n as select from demo\_tab\_root\_5\\n\\{\\n key key\_field,\\n field1,\\n field2,\\n field3,\\n field4\\n\\}\\n unmanaged implementation in class bp\_demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u unique;\\nstrict ( 2 );\\n\\ndefine behavior for DEMO\_RAP\_LUW\_LN\_U alias root\\nlate numbering\\nlock master\\nauthorization master ( global )\\n\\n\\{\\n create;\\n update;\\n delete;\\n field ( readonly:update ) key\_field;\\n\\} \* Public class definition \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n METHODS constructor. \\n\\ \\n PRIVATE SECTION. \\n METHODS: \\n select\_from\_dbtab. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n out->begin\_section( \`Demonstrating the Phases of the RAP LUW\` \\n )->line( \\n )->write( \`---------- Successful save ----------\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u \\n CREATE FIELDS ( field1 field2 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid1' field1 = 'aaa' \\n field2 = 'bbb' field3 = 1 field4 = 2 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid2' field1 = 'ccc' \\n field2 = 'ddd' field3 = 3 field4 = 4 ) ) \\n FAILED DATA(f\_mod) \\n REPORTED DATA(r\_mod). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSE OF demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u FAILED DATA(f). \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write( \`sy-subrc was set to \` && sy-subrc && \\n \` after COMMIT ENTITIES statement.\` ). \\n\\ \\n out->write( f ). \\n\\ \\n ELSE. \\n out->write( \`sy-subrc was set to \` && sy-subrc && \\n \` after COMMIT ENTITIES statement.\` ). \\n\\ \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n out->write( bp\_demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u=>meth\_called ). \\n CLEAR bp\_demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u=>meth\_called. \\n\\ \\n "Displaying database table entries after modify request \\n select\_from\_dbtab( ). \\n\\ \\n out->line( ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`----- Failure in FINALIZE method -----\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u \\n CREATE FIELDS ( field1 field2 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid3' field1 = 'eee123' \\n field2 = 'fff' field3 = 5 field4 = 6 ) ) \\n FAILED f\_mod \\n REPORTED r\_mod. \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSE OF demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u FAILED f. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write( \`sy-subrc was set to \` && sy-subrc && \\n \` after COMMIT ENTITIES statement.\` ). \\n\\ \\n out->write( bp\_demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u=>meth\_called ). \\n CLEAR bp\_demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u=>meth\_called. \\n\\ \\n out->write( f ). \\n\\ \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u \\n CREATE FIELDS ( field1 field2 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid4' field1 = 'eee' \\n field2 = 'fff' field3 = 7 field4 = 8 ) ) \\n FAILED f\_mod \\n REPORTED r\_mod. \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSE OF demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u FAILED f. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc = 0. \\n out->write( \`sy-subrc was set to \` && sy-subrc && \\n \` after COMMIT ENTITIES statement.\` ). \\n\\ \\n out->write( bp\_demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u=>meth\_called ). \\n CLEAR bp\_demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u=>meth\_called. \\n\\ \\n ENDIF. \\n ELSE. \\n out->write( \`sy-subrc was set to \` && sy-subrc && \\n \` after COMMIT ENTITIES statement.\` ). \\n\\ \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n "Displaying database table entries after modify request \\n select\_from\_dbtab( ). \\n\\ \\n out->line( ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`----- Failure in CHECK\_BEFORE\_SAVE method -----\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u \\n CREATE FIELDS ( field1 field2 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid1' field1 = 'ggg' \\n field2 = 'XXX' field3 = 9 field4 = 9 ) ) \\n FAILED f\_mod \\n REPORTED r\_mod. \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSE OF demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u FAILED f. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`sy-subrc was set to \` && sy-subrc && \\n \` after COMMIT ENTITIES statement.\` ). \\n\\ \\n out->write( bp\_demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u=>meth\_called ). \\n CLEAR bp\_demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u=>meth\_called. \\n\\ \\n out->write( f ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u \\n CREATE FIELDS ( field1 field2 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid1' field1 = 'ggg' \\n field2 = 'hhh' field3 = 10 field4 = 11 ) ) \\n FAILED f\_mod \\n REPORTED r\_mod. \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n IF sy-subrc = 0. \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`sy-subrc was set to \` && sy-subrc && \\n \` after COMMIT ENTITIES statement.\` ). \\n\\ \\n out->write( bp\_demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u=>meth\_called ). \\n CLEAR bp\_demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u=>meth\_called. \\n\\ \\n ENDIF. \\n ELSE. \\n out->write( \`sy-subrc was set to \` && sy-subrc && \\n \` after COMMIT ENTITIES statement.\` ). \\n\\ \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n "Displaying database table entries after modify request \\n select\_from\_dbtab( ). \\n\\ \\n out->line( ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`----- Rollback -----\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u \\n CREATE FIELDS ( field1 field2 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid1' field1 = 'eee' \\n field2 = 'fff' field3 = 10 field4 = 12 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid2' field1 = 'ggg123' \\n field2 = 'hhh' field3 = 14 field4 = 16 ) ) \\n FAILED f\_mod \\n REPORTED r\_mod. \\n\\ \\n ROLLBACK ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n out->write( bp\_demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u=>meth\_called ). \\n CLEAR bp\_demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u=>meth\_called. \\n\\ \\n "Displaying database table entries after modify request \\n select\_from\_dbtab( ). \\n\\ \\n out->line( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD select\_from\_dbtab. \\n SELECT \* FROM demo\_tab\_root\_5 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(db\_entries). \\n out->write( db\_entries ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD constructor. \\n super->constructor( ). \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_root\_5. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. \* Public class definition \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n METHODS constructor. \\n\\ \\n PRIVATE SECTION. \\n METHODS: \\n select\_from\_dbtab. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n out->begin\_section( \`Demonstrating the Phases of the RAP LUW\` \\n )->line( \\n )->write( \`---------- Successful save ----------\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u \\n CREATE FIELDS ( field1 field2 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid1' field1 = 'aaa' \\n field2 = 'bbb' field3 = 1 field4 = 2 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid2' field1 = 'ccc' \\n field2 = 'ddd' field3 = 3 field4 = 4 ) ) \\n FAILED DATA(f\_mod) \\n REPORTED DATA(r\_mod). \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSE OF demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u FAILED DATA(f). \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write( \`sy-subrc was set to \` && sy-subrc && \\n \` after COMMIT ENTITIES statement.\` ). \\n\\ \\n out->write( f ). \\n\\ \\n ELSE. \\n out->write( \`sy-subrc was set to \` && sy-subrc && \\n \` after COMMIT ENTITIES statement.\` ). \\n\\ \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n out->write( bp\_demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u=>meth\_called ). \\n CLEAR bp\_demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u=>meth\_called. \\n\\ \\n "Displaying database table entries after modify request \\n select\_from\_dbtab( ). \\n\\ \\n out->line( ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`----- Failure in FINALIZE method -----\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u \\n CREATE FIELDS ( field1 field2 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid3' field1 = 'eee123' \\n field2 = 'fff' field3 = 5 field4 = 6 ) ) \\n FAILED f\_mod \\n REPORTED r\_mod. \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSE OF demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u FAILED f. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n out->write( \`sy-subrc was set to \` && sy-subrc && \\n \` after COMMIT ENTITIES statement.\` ). \\n\\ \\n out->write( bp\_demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u=>meth\_called ). \\n CLEAR bp\_demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u=>meth\_called. \\n\\ \\n out->write( f ). \\n\\ \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u \\n CREATE FIELDS ( field1 field2 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid4' field1 = 'eee' \\n field2 = 'fff' field3 = 7 field4 = 8 ) ) \\n FAILED f\_mod \\n REPORTED r\_mod. \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSE OF demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u FAILED f. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc = 0. \\n out->write( \`sy-subrc was set to \` && sy-subrc && \\n \` after COMMIT ENTITIES statement.\` ). \\n\\ \\n out->write( bp\_demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u=>meth\_called ). \\n CLEAR bp\_demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u=>meth\_called. \\n\\ \\n ENDIF. \\n ELSE. \\n out->write( \`sy-subrc was set to \` && sy-subrc && \\n \` after COMMIT ENTITIES statement.\` ). \\n\\ \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n "Displaying database table entries after modify request \\n select\_from\_dbtab( ). \\n\\ \\n out->line( ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`----- Failure in CHECK\_BEFORE\_SAVE method -----\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u \\n CREATE FIELDS ( field1 field2 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid1' field1 = 'ggg' \\n field2 = 'XXX' field3 = 9 field4 = 9 ) ) \\n FAILED f\_mod \\n REPORTED r\_mod. \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES RESPONSE OF demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u FAILED f. \\n\\ \\n IF sy-subrc <> 0. \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`sy-subrc was set to \` && sy-subrc && \\n \` after COMMIT ENTITIES statement.\` ). \\n\\ \\n out->write( bp\_demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u=>meth\_called ). \\n CLEAR bp\_demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u=>meth\_called. \\n\\ \\n out->write( f ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u \\n CREATE FIELDS ( field1 field2 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid1' field1 = 'ggg' \\n field2 = 'hhh' field3 = 10 field4 = 11 ) ) \\n FAILED f\_mod \\n REPORTED r\_mod. \\n\\ \\n COMMIT ENTITIES. \\n IF sy-subrc = 0. \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`sy-subrc was set to \` && sy-subrc && \\n \` after COMMIT ENTITIES statement.\` ). \\n\\ \\n out->write( bp\_demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u=>meth\_called ). \\n CLEAR bp\_demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u=>meth\_called. \\n\\ \\n ENDIF. \\n ELSE. \\n out->write( \`sy-subrc was set to \` && sy-subrc && \\n \` after COMMIT ENTITIES statement.\` ). \\n\\ \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n "Displaying database table entries after modify request \\n select\_from\_dbtab( ). \\n\\ \\n out->line( ). \\n\\ \\n\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* \\n\\ \\n out->write( \`----- Rollback -----\` ). \\n\\ \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u \\n CREATE FIELDS ( field1 field2 field3 field4 ) \\n WITH VALUE #( \\n ( %cid = 'cid1' field1 = 'eee' \\n field2 = 'fff' field3 = 10 field4 = 12 ) \\n ( %cid = 'cid2' field1 = 'ggg123' \\n field2 = 'hhh' field3 = 14 field4 = 16 ) ) \\n FAILED f\_mod \\n REPORTED r\_mod. \\n\\ \\n ROLLBACK ENTITIES. \\n\\ \\n out->write( bp\_demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u=>meth\_called ). \\n CLEAR bp\_demo\_rap\_luw\_ln\_u=>meth\_called. \\n\\ \\n "Displaying database table entries after modify request \\n select\_from\_dbtab( ). \\n\\ \\n out->line( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD select\_from\_dbtab. \\n SELECT \* FROM demo\_tab\_root\_5 \\n ORDER BY key\_field \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(db\_entries). \\n out->write( db\_entries ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD constructor. \\n super->constructor( ). \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_root\_5. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. abenabap.html abenabap\_rap.html abenabap\_for\_rap\_bos.html abenabap\_rap\_other.html abapeml\_examples\_abexas.html