---
title: "ABENRFC_LOGON_DATA_ABEXA"
description: |
  ABENRFC_LOGON_DATA_ABEXA - Standard ABAP language reference documentation
library: "standard"
libraryName: "Standard ABAP"
category: "general"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_latest_index_htm/latest/en-US/ABENRFC_LOGON_DATA_ABEXA.htm"
abapFile: "ABENRFC_LOGON_DATA_ABEXA.html"
keywords: ["if", "method", "class", "data", "ABENRFC", "LOGON", "DATA", "ABEXA"]
---

This example demonstrates how the logon data of an RFC session is set implicitly.

A remote-enabled function module `DEMO_RFM_LOGON_DATA` is called with the destination `NONE` using the RFC interface. The logon data user name, client, and logon language of the corresponding [RFC session](ABENRFC_CONTEXT.html) are provided implicitly. To demonstrate that the [logon language](ABENLOGON_LANGUAGE_GLOSRY.html) of the RFC session is set by the language of the [text environment](ABENTEXT_ENVIRONMENT_GLOSRY.html) of the caller, it is set to a language other than the logon language of the caller before the call with the statement [`SET LOCALE LANGUAGE`](ABAPSET_LOCALE.html). In the called RFM the language of the text environment of the RFC session is also changed and is then also different to the logon language.

If the function module `DEMO_RFM_LOGON_DATA` is called remotely again, the RFC session is reused with the existing logon data. Changing the language of the text environment again in the caller would no longer have any effect.

\* Public class definition \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rfc\_implct\_logon\_data DEFINITION \\n PUBLIC \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n CREATE PUBLIC . \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main \\n REDEFINITION . \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rfc\_implct\_logon\_data IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n DATA: \\n BEGIN OF logon\_data, \\n uname TYPE sy-uname, \\n mandt TYPE sy-mandt, \\n logon\_langu TYPE sy-langu, \\n langu TYPE sy-langu, \\n END OF logon\_data. \\n\\ \\n IF cl\_abap\_syst=>get\_logon\_language( ) <> 'E'. \\n SET LOCALE LANGUAGE 'E'. \\n ELSE. \\n SET LOCALE LANGUAGE 'D'. \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n logon\_data = VALUE #( \\n uname = sy-uname \\n mandt = sy-mandt \\n logon\_langu = cl\_abap\_syst=>get\_logon\_language( ) \\n langu = cl\_abap\_syst=>get\_language( ) ). \\n ASSERT logon\_data-langu = sy-langu. \\n\\ \\n out->next\_section( 'Parameters of Caller' \\n )->write( logon\_data ). \\n\\ \\n CALL FUNCTION 'DEMO\_RFM\_LOGON\_DATA' DESTINATION 'NONE' \\n IMPORTING \\n uname = logon\_data-uname \\n mandt = logon\_data-mandt \\n logon\_langu = logon\_data-logon\_langu \\n langu = logon\_data-langu. \\n\\ \\n out->next\_section( 'Parameters of Callee' \\n )->write( logon\_data ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. \* Public class definition \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rfc\_implct\_logon\_data DEFINITION \\n PUBLIC \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n CREATE PUBLIC . \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main \\n REDEFINITION . \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rfc\_implct\_logon\_data IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n DATA: \\n BEGIN OF logon\_data, \\n uname TYPE sy-uname, \\n mandt TYPE sy-mandt, \\n logon\_langu TYPE sy-langu, \\n langu TYPE sy-langu, \\n END OF logon\_data. \\n\\ \\n IF cl\_abap\_syst=>get\_logon\_language( ) <> 'E'. \\n SET LOCALE LANGUAGE 'E'. \\n ELSE. \\n SET LOCALE LANGUAGE 'D'. \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n logon\_data = VALUE #( \\n uname = sy-uname \\n mandt = sy-mandt \\n logon\_langu = cl\_abap\_syst=>get\_logon\_language( ) \\n langu = cl\_abap\_syst=>get\_language( ) ). \\n ASSERT logon\_data-langu = sy-langu. \\n\\ \\n out->next\_section( 'Parameters of Caller' \\n )->write( logon\_data ). \\n\\ \\n CALL FUNCTION 'DEMO\_RFM\_LOGON\_DATA' DESTINATION 'NONE' \\n IMPORTING \\n uname = logon\_data-uname \\n mandt = logon\_data-mandt \\n logon\_langu = logon\_data-logon\_langu \\n langu = logon\_data-langu. \\n\\ \\n out->next\_section( 'Parameters of Callee' \\n )->write( logon\_data ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. abenabap.html abenabap\_reference.html abenabap\_execution.html abencall\_processing\_blocks.html abencall\_procedures.html abapcall\_function.html abapcall\_function\_destination-.html abenrfc\_abexas.html