---
title: "ABENABAP_XPATH_FNCTNS"
description: |
  ABENABAP_XPATH_FNCTNS - Standard ABAP language reference documentation
library: "standard"
libraryName: "Standard ABAP"
category: "general"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_latest_index_htm/latest/en-US/ABENABAP_XPATH_FNCTNS.htm"
abapFile: "ABENABAP_XPATH_FNCTNS.html"
keywords: ["select", "do", "if", "data", "ABENABAP", "XPATH", "FNCTNS"]
---

In the following, supported and not supported XSLT instructions of the [SAP XSLT processor](ABENABAP_XSLT_PROCESSOR.html) are listed. The URI for the XSLT namespace is `http://www.w3.org/1999/XSL/Transform`.

**Function** **XPath Version** **Description** **Function** **XPath Version** **Description** **Function** **XPath Version** **Description** **Function** **XPath Version** **Description** **Function** **XPath Version** **Description** **Function** **XPath Version** **Description** **Function** **XPath Version** **Description** **Function** **XPath Version** **Description** **Function** **XPath Version** **Description** **Function** **Description** **Function** **XPath Version** **Description** **Function** **XPath Version** **Description** `string(*[object]*)` 1.0 Converts an object to a string. `ceiling(*number*)` 1.0 Returns the smallest integer greater than the argument. `floor(*number*)` 1.0 Returns the largest integer not greater than the argument. `round(*number*)` 1.0 Returns the integer closest to the argument. `concat(*string*, *string[, ...]*)` 1.0 Returns the concatenation of the arguments. `normalize-space(*[string]*)` 1.0 Returns the argument by removing leading and trailing whitespaces and replacing all sequences of whitespace with one space. `string-length(*[string]*)` 1.0 Returns the number of characters in the argument. `substring(*string, number[, number]*)` 1.0 Returns the substring of the string starting at the character specified in the first number and with an optional length specified in the second number. `translate(*string, string, string*)` 1.0 Returns the first string by replacing the occurrences of characters in the second string at the specific position with the third string. `contains(*string, string*)` 1.0 Returns true if the first string contains the second string. Otherwise, it returns false. `starts-with(*string, string*)` 1.0 Returns true if the first string starts with the second string. Otherwise, it returns false. `substring-after(*string, string*)` 1.0 Returns the substring of the first string after the occurrence of the second string in the first string. `substring-before(*string, string*)` 1.0 Returns the substring of the first string before the occurrence of the second string in the first string. `matches(*string, string[, string]*)` 2.0 Returns true if the string matches the pattern in the regular expression string. The third argument defines a flag to set options the regular expression interpretation. `replace(*string, string, string[, string]*)` 2.0 Returns a string that is created by replacing elements defined in the second string by elements defined in a regular expression in the third string in the first string. The fourth argument defines a flag to set options the regular expression interpretation. `false()` 1.0 Returns false. `true()` 1.0 Returns true. `not(*boolean*)` 1.0 Returns true if the argument is false. Otherwise, it returns false. `local-name(*[node-set]*)` 1.0 Returns the name of the first node in the specified node set or the name of the current node. The name does not include the namespace prefix. `name(*[node-set]*)` 1.0 Returns the name of the first node in the specified node set or the name of the current node. The name does include the namespace prefix. `namespace-uri(*[node-set]*)` 1.0 Returns the namespace URI of the first node in the specified node set or the namespace URI of the current node. `number(*[object]*)` 1.0 Converts an object to a number. `lang(*string*)` 1.0 Returns true if the specified language is the same as specified in the current node. `boolean(*object*)` 1.0 Converts an object to a Boolean. `count(*node-set*)` 1.0 Returns the amount of nodes in the node set. `sum(*node-set*)` 1.0 Returns the sum of each node in the node set. `id(*object*)` 1.0 Selects elements by their unique ID. `position()` 1.0 Returns the context position of the node that is being processed. `last()` 1.0 Returns the context size of the node that is being processed. abenabap.html abenabap\_reference.html abendata\_interchange.html abenabap\_xml.html abenabap\_xml\_trafos.html abenabap\_xslt.html abenabap\_xslt\_self\_written.html abenabap\_xslt\_functions.html