---
title: "ABENPRINT_PARAMETERS_OVERVIEW"
description: |
  ABENPRINT_PARAMETERS_OVERVIEW - Standard ABAP language reference documentation
library: "standard"
libraryName: "Standard ABAP"
category: "general"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_latest_index_htm/latest/en-US/ABENPRINT_PARAMETERS_OVERVIEW.htm"
abapFile: "ABENPRINT_PARAMETERS_OVERVIEW.html"
keywords: ["select", "delete", "do", "if", "case", "data", "ABENPRINT", "PARAMETERS", "OVERVIEW"]
---

The following table lists all spool parameters by their associated input parameters in the function modules [`GET_PRINT_PARAMETERS`](ABENPRINT_PARAMETERS_FUNCTION.html) and [`SET_PRINT_PARAMETERS`](ABENPRINT_PARAMETERS_WINDOW.html). The second column shows the label in the spool dialog box. The third column contains the name of the component in the structure `PRI_PARAMS` whose content, however, cannot be modified directly in a program.

The following table lists all archiving parameters sorted by their associated input parameters in the function modules `GET_PRINT_PARAMETERS` and `SET_PRINT_PARAMETERS`. The second column contains the label in the spool dialog box. The third column contains the name of the component in the structure `ARC_PARAMS` whose content, however, cannot be modified directly in a program.

The following table lists the control parameters of the function module `GET_PRINT_PARAMETERS`.

The following table shows the values that can be passed to `MODE`.

The following table lists the output parameters of the function module `GET_PRINT_PARAMETERS`.

-   The input parameters of `GET_PRINT_PARAMETERS` that do not have a component in the structure `PRI_PARAMS` are not passed to a spool request explicitly during `NEW-PAGE PRINT ON` and `SUBMIT TO SAP-SPOOL` and are defined internally by the function module instead.
-   Using `SET_PRINT_PARAMETERS` only allows the setting those spool parameters that are stored in components of the `PRI_PARAMS` structure.
-   The spool parameters `LINE_COUNT` and `LINE_SIZE` do not overwrite the additions `LINE-COUNT` and `LINE-SIZE` of the program-initiating statement of a program specified using `REPORT` if the value *BATCH* is passed to the parameter `MODE`. In this case, the corresponding input fields in the spool dialog box are not ready for input. If these values exceed the maximum values defined by `LAYOUT`, the list cannot be spooled.
-   The values of the components of the structure `PRI_PARAMS` are usually intended for internal use only and do not always match the values specified directly, such as in the addition `LINE-SIZE`.

-   Requests can be archived only if these parameters are specified consistently and completely. Archiving works across all applications. Apart from certain basic settings, no other actions are required. If spool lists are to be stored on an application-specific basis, some special actions must be taken. For more information, see the documentation [ArchiveLink](https://help.sap.com/docs/ABAP_PLATFORM_NEW/bb9551032d3046c98c2b251ae486085f/7b5ef23cce27466f86ee4a6146ccf2ee) in SAP Help Portal.
-   When archiving long lists, it may be useful to write index information to the list using [`PRINT-CONTROL INDEX-LINE`](ABAPPRINT-CONTROL.html). This makes it easier to search the archived list later on.

**Input Parameter** **Dialog Field**\\ **Component** **Meaning** **Input Parameter** **Dialog Field**\\ **Component** **Meaning** **Input Parameter** **Meaning** **MODE** **Effect** **Output Parameter** **Meaning** `IN_PARAMETERS` - - Entire structure of type `PRI_PARAMS`; single values passed in parallel overwrite the associated component. `ARCHIVE_MODE` *Archive mode* `ARMOD` If *1* print only (default), if *2* archive only, if *3* print and archive. `AUTHORITY` *Authorization* `PRBER` Authorization value for authorization object `S_SPO_ACT`. This can be used to check whether a user is allowed to perform certain actions on the spool request. `COPIES` *Number of copies* `PRCOP` Number or printouts, default 1. `COVER_PAGE` *Selection cover page* (if *PARAMSEL* passed to `MODE`) `PRBIG` If *X*, a cover page with the input values of the selection layout is printed, default blank. `DATA_SET` - `PRDSN` Template for the name of the spool file, default is empty. \\ `DEFAULT_SPOOL_SIZE` (`GET_PRINT_PARAMETERS` only) *Spool request has a width of maximum 255 characters*\\ - If *X*, line break forced after the 255th column, default blank. `DEPARTMENT` *Department* `PRABT` Department name for the SAP cover page, default taken from user address. `DESTINATION` *Output device* `PDEST` Name of a printer or fax machine, default taken from user master data. `DRAFT` (`GET_PRINT_PARAMETERS` only) *Text only* - If *X* only text is output, default is blank. `EXPIRATION` *Retention period* `PEXPI` Number of days for which the spool request is retained by the spool system, default is 8. `FOOT_LINE` (`SET_PRINT_PARAMETERS` only) - `FOOTL` If *X* footer is output (only when spooling screen lists) whose content can be modified in the spool dialog box under *Parameters*; default is empty. `HOST_COVER_PAGE` *OS cover page* `PRUNX` If *X* the operating system cover page is output; default is blank. `IMMEDIATELY` *Time of printing* `PRIMM` If *X* the spool request is sent immediately, if *A* the spool request is printed at a later time (only for non-front-end printers), if blank the spool request must be printed manually, default taken from user master data. `LAYOUT` *Formatting* `PAART` Page format; depending on the output device, different formats with different maximum page lengths and widths can be specified, default is set internally. `LINE_COUNT` *Lines* (subproperty of *Formatting*) `LINCT` Number of lines per page; works like the addition `LINE-COUNT` in a program-initiating statement; 0 (unlimited number of lines) is not possible; the maximum number depends on `LAYOUT`; default is set internally. Overwritten by `REPORT` if the value *BATCH* is passed for `MODE`. `LINE_SIZE` *Columns* (subproperty of *Formatting*) `LINSZ` Characters per list line; works like the addition `LINE-SIZE` in a program-initiating statement; maximum depends on `LAYOUT`; default is set internally. Overwritten by `REPORT` if the value *BATCH* is passed for `MODE`. `LIST_NAME` *Name* `PLIST` The name of the spool request if not printed immediately, default is a combination of the start of the program name from the parameter `REPORT` and the user name `LIST_TEXT` *Title* `PRTXT` Description text for the spool request, appears on the default cover page and is displayed in the output controller instead of `LIST_NAME`, default is empty. `NEW_LIST_ID` *New spool request* `PRNEW` If *X* (default) a new spool request is created, otherwise the system attempts to attach the spool request to an existing request, works only if `LIST_NAME`, `DESTINATION`, `COPIES`, and `LAYOUT` match and `PROTECT_LIST` is empty. `NO_FRAMES` (`GET_PRINT_PARAMETERS` only) *No frame characters* - If *X* no frame characters are printed, default is blank. `PRIORITY` *Print priority* `PRIOT` *1* (high) to *9* (low), default is *1*. `PROTECT_LIST` (`GET_PRINT_PARAMETERS` only) *Protection from attachments* - If *X* no further requests can be attached to the spool request, default is blank. `RECEIVER` *Receiver* `PRREC` Receiver name for the SAP cover page, default is user name. `RELEASE` *Delete immediately after printing* `PRREL` If *X*, spool request is deleted immediately after output, else after `EXPIRATION`; default taken from user defaults. `REPORT` (`GET_PRINT_PARAMETERS` only) - - If `MODE` is the same as *BATCH*, the name of the program to be started must be specified in `REPORT`. The list lines per page (`LINE_COUNT`) and the characters per list line (`LINE_SIZE`) are then taken from the program-initiating statement of the specified program. Still the default for the first part of the name of the spool request overwritten by `LIST_NAME` (the default for this is the content of `sy-repid`). `SAP_COVER_PAGE` *SAP cover sheet* `PRSAP` If *X* a standard cover page with standard information is created, if *D* (default) the cover page printed depends on the settings of the printer, if blank no cover page is created. `SUPPRESS_SHADING` (`GET_PRINT_PARAMETERS` only) *Colors and shading suppressed in the printout* - If *X* colors and shading are suppressed in the printout, default is blank. `TYPE` - `PTYPE` Type of the spool request. `UC_DISPLAY_MODE` (`GET_PRINT_PARAMETERS` only) *Character format* - Unicode spool output; if *1*, characters are output with the output length one; if *2*, all characters are printed in their output lengths; if *3*, all characters are printed with the length two. `WITH_STRUCTURE` (`GET_PRINT_PARAMETERS` only) *Spool list with structure information* - If *X* structure information is also printed (for ACC and RTL output), default is blank. - *Print All*, *Print from Page ... to* - Restricts the number of pages printed, default is *Print All*. `IN_ARCHIVE_PARAMETERS` - - Entire structure of type `ARC_PARAMS`, any single values passed in parallel overwrite the associated component. `AR_OBJECT` *Document type* `AR_OBJECT` Document type of the archiving object. `ARCHIVE_ID` - `ARCHIVE_ID` Target archive of the archiving request. `ARCHIVE_INFO` *Information* `INFO` Information ID for the archiving request. `ARCHIVE_TEXT` *Text* `ARCTEXT` Description text of the archiving request. `SAP_OBJECT` *Object type* `SAP_OBJECT` Object type of the SAP object. `MODE` Possible values *BATCH*, *CURRENT*, *DEFVALS*, *DISPLAY*, *PARAMS*, *PARAMSEL* (see below) `NO_DIALOG` If *X* no spool dialog box is displayed `BATCH` The function module gets spool parameters for a background request. The executable program to be started must be specified in the input parameter `REPORT`. If this executable program contains the additions `LINE-COUNT` or `LINE-SIZE` in the `REPORT` statement, they are used as non-modifiable values in the spool dialog box. The function *Save* is displayed on the spool dialog box instead of *Print*. `CURRENT` The function module is used to determine the current spool parameters after spooling has been activated. If nothing is being spooled, the default values are returned. `DEFVALS` Always returns the default values. `DISPLAY` The spool parameters are displayed in the spool dialog box but cannot be changed. `PARAMS` Standard setting, the user can choose *Print* or *Cancel* on the spool dialog box. `PARAMSEL` Like `PARAMS`, however the additional checkbox *Selection Cover Page* appears on the spool dialog box. `OUT_PARAMETERS` Set of spool parameters in a structure of the type `PRI_PARAMS`. Either complete or empty. `OUT_ARCHIVE_PARAMETERS` Set of archiving parameters in a structure of the type `ARC_PARAMS`. Either complete or empty. `VALID` If *X*, all spool parameters or archiving parameters are complete and printing or archiving is possible. If blank, the structures are empty, and printing or archiving is not possible. `VALID` is blank if *Cancel* is used to exit the spool dialog box. `VALID_FOR_SPOOL_CREATION` If *X*, enough spool parameters are available to create a spool request. There is no guarantee, however, that this request can be printed or archived. If blank, the structures a empty, and a spool request cannot be created. This is different from `VALID` only if the spool dialog box is not displayed. If the spool dialog box is displayed, `VALID_FOR_SPOOL_CREATION` is filled just like `VALID`. abenabap.html abenabap\_reference.html abenabap\_screens.html abenabap\_dynpro\_list.html abenprint.html abenprint\_parameters.html