---
title: "ABENCL_ABAP_DBFEATURES"
description: |
  ABENCL_ABAP_DBFEATURES - Standard ABAP language reference documentation
library: "standard"
libraryName: "Standard ABAP"
category: "general"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_latest_index_htm/latest/en-US/ABENCL_ABAP_DBFEATURES.htm"
abapFile: "ABENCL_ABAP_DBFEATURES.html"
keywords: ["select", "insert", "do", "if", "catch", "method", "class", "data", "internal-table", "ABENCL", "ABAP", "DBFEATURES"]
---

The method `USE_FEATURES` of the class `CL_ABAP_DBFEATURES` can be used to determine whether the current database or a database specified using a [database connection](ABENDATABASE_CONNECTION_GLOSRY.html) supports particular features and whether these can be used at runtime in ABAP. One or more features can be queried by passing them to the method in an internal table. The possible line content of the internal table is determined by constants of the class `CL_ABAP_DBFEATURES`. Other values raise an exception of the class `CX_ABAP_INVALID_PARAM_VALUE`. The following tables list these constants, the respective database features and how they can be used in ABAP.

Up to now, many features have been introduced in and are supported by ABAP SQL that work on [SAP HANA](ABENSAP_HANA_GLOSRY.html) only. Most of these features are not governed by *CL\_ABAP\_DBFEATURES* any more. Note that there is no syntax warning any more if such HANA-only features are used. Exceptions are raised if a statement using such features is sent to a non-HANA database using [secondary connections](ABENSECONDARY_DB_CONNECTION_GLOSRY.html).

The method `USE_FEATURES` returns the value of `abap_true` if the feature is supported by the database and the specified use in ABAP is possible.

For the current database, checks whether specific additional features can be accessed using ABAP SQL.

The program `DEMO_DBFEATURES` checks all possible database features for the current database.

-   Most of these features can be used statically in ABAP programs regardless of the current database system. This means there is no syntax error when one of these database features is used in an ABAP program. For example, it is possible to access DDIC external views in every ABAP program or AMDP methods can be called. An exception is raised only if the current database does not support the corresponding feature at runtime. A syntax warning from the [extended program check](ABENEXTENDED_PROGRAM_CHECK_GLOSRY.html) that can be hidden by a pragma indicates the potential exception. The class `CL_ABAP_DBFEATURES` can be used to check whether a special form of access is possible at runtime, instead of catching the corresponding exception. Replacement implementations can be used if an access type is not possible.
-   The features `TABLE_KEYCNT_MAX1`, `TABLE_KEYLEN_MAX1`, and `TABLE_LEN_MAX1` can currently only be used by SAP developers as internal flags for database tables, which indicate the tables potentially exceed globally defined and platform-independent sizes. When a table like this is accessed using ABAP SQL, a syntax check warning from the [extended program check](ABENEXTENDED_PROGRAM_CHECK_GLOSRY.html) is raised. This warning can be hidden by a pragma. The warning for `TABLE_LEN_MAX1` is also raised for [views](ABENVIEW_GLOSRY.html) that use a table of this type. In standard SAP systems, these tables are usually delivered within the general limits, but customers and partners can enhance them beyond these sizes. Tables enhanced like this can only be accessed on database systems that support these expanded limits. Other database systems use a replacement implementation that can be accessed using the class `CL_ABAP_DBFEATURES`.

-   If a syntax warning from the [extended program check](ABENEXTENDED_PROGRAM_CHECK_GLOSRY.html) due to enhanced database features is raised when a database object is accessed, it can be hidden by a pragma as long as the object was accessed on database systems that support the features or if there is a replacement implementation. If there is no guarantee that the object is accessed only on database systems that support the features, it is best to wrap the access behind an API.
-   Tables flagged as potentially exceeding platform-independent sizes should never be accessed globally. They should always be accessed within an API wrapper and the associated replacement implementation should be wrapped too.
-   As soon as all database systems support a database feature and it can be used in ABAP, the checks are no longer necessary. The associated constant is then disallowed and removed from the class `CL_ABAP_DBFEATURES`.
-   The class `CL_ABAP_DBFEATURES_AUNITHELPER` can be used to reduce the set of database features in `CL_ABAP_DBFEATURES` during a [unit test](ABENUNIT_TEST_GLOSRY.html). In programs that use `CL_ABAP_DBFEATURES`, this makes it possible to test replacement implementations for databases that support fewer features than the current database.

IF cl\_abap\_dbfeatures=>use\_features( \\n EXPORTING \\n requested\_features = \\n VALUE #( ( cl\_abap\_dbfeatures=>amdp\_table\_function ) \\n ( cl\_abap\_dbfeatures=>external\_views ) ) ). \\n ... \\nELSE. \\n ... \\nENDIF. **Constant** **Database Feature** **Use in ABAP**\\ `AMDP_TABLE_FUNCTION` [Table Functions](ABENTABLE_FUNCTION_GLOSRY.html) Access to [CDS table functions](ABENCDS_TABLE_FUNCTION_GLOSRY.html) in ABAP SQL. `CTE_IN_CORRELATED_SUBQUERIES` [Common table expressions (CTE)](ABENCOMMON_TABLE_EXPRESSION_GLOSRY.html) Access to common table expression in correlated [subqueries](ABENWHERE_LOGEXP_SUBQUERY.html) in ABAP SQL. `EXTERNAL_VIEWS` [SAP HANA views](ABENHANA_VIEW_GLOSRY.html) Access to [DDIC external views](ABENEXTERNAL_VIEW_GLOSRY.html) in ABAP SQL. `GROUPING_SETS` Grouping sets Use of [grouping sets](ABAPGROUPING_SETS_CLAUSE.html) in the [`GROUP BY`](ABAPGROUPBY_CLAUSE.html) clause in ABAP SQL. `HIERARCHIES` Hierarchy Data Use of [hierarchy data](ABENSELECT_HIERARCHY_DATA.html) as a [data source of queries](ABAPSELECT_DATA_SOURCE.html) in ABAP SQL. `INDICATORS` [Null indicator](ABENNULL_INDICATOR_GLOSRY.html) Use of addition [`INDICATORS`](ABAPSELECT_INDICATORS.html) in a [`SELECT` statement](ABAPSELECT.html) in ABAP SQL. `ITABS_IN_FROM_CLAUSE` Local temporary tables Use of [internal tables](ABAPSELECT_ITAB.html) as a [data source of queries](ABAPSELECT_DATA_SOURCE.html) in ABAP SQL, if these are evaluated by the database. `LIMIT_IN_SUBSELECT_OR_CTE` Sorts or delimiters in subqueries Use of the [`ORDER BY`](ABAPORDERBY_CLAUSE.html) clause or the additions [`UP TO`](ABAPSELECT_UP_TO_OFFSET.html) and [`OFFSET`](ABAPSELECT_UP_TO_OFFSET.html) in [subqueries](ABENSUBQUERY_GLOSRY.html) in ABAP SQL. `MODIFY_FROM_SELECT` Subquery in `UPSERT` Use of a [subquery](ABAPINSERT_FROM_SELECT.html) as a [data source](ABAPMODIFY_SOURCE.html) of the statement [`MODIFY`](ABAPMODIFY_DBTAB.html) in ABAP SQL. `ORDER_BY_NULLS_FIRST_LAST` Addition to the `ORDER BY` clause Sort a result set after [`ORDER BY`](ABAPORDERBY_CLAUSE.html) by determining the positions of potential null values in ABAP SQL. `WINDOWING` [Window expressions](ABENWINDOW_EXPRESSION_GLOSRY.html) Use of [window expressions](ABAPSELECT_OVER.html) in a [`SELECT` list](ABAPSELECT_LIST.html) in ABAP SQL. **Constant** **Database Feature** **Use in ABAP**\\ `TABLE_KEYCNT_MAX1` Up to 120 key fields A table can contain more key fields than is allowed as a [platform-independent table](ABENDDIC_DATABASE_TABLES_KEY.html). `TABLE_KEYLEN_MAX1` Keys can have up to 2000 bytes The key of a table can contain more bytes than is allowed as a [platform-independent table](ABENDDIC_DATABASE_TABLES_KEY.html). `TABLE_LEN_MAX1` A table line can have up to 16293 bytes A table line can contain more bytes than is allowed as a [platform-independent table](ABENDDIC_DATABASE_TABLES_TECHSTRUC.html). **Constant** **Database Feature** **Use in ABAP**\\ `CALL_AMDP_METHOD` Supports [AMDP](ABENAMDP_GLOSRY.html) [Method call](ABAPCALL_METHOD_STATIC_SHORT.html) of [AMDP procedure implementations](ABENAMDP_PROCEDURE_METHOD_GLOSRY.html). `CALL_DATABASE_PROCEDURE` [Database Procedures](ABENDATABASE_PROCEDURE_GLOSRY.html) Call of database procedures using [`CALL DATABASE PROCEDURE`](ABAPCALL_DATABASE_PROCEDURE.html). abenabap.html abenabap\_reference.html abendb\_access.html abenabap\_sql.html abencl\_osql.html