---
title: "ABENFUNCTION"
description: |
  ABENFUNCTION - Standard ABAP language reference documentation
library: "standard"
libraryName: "Standard ABAP"
category: "general"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_latest_index_htm/latest/en-US/ABENFUNCTION.htm"
abapFile: "ABENFUNCTION.html"
keywords: ["select", "do", "if", "try", "catch", "method", "class", "types", "ABENFUNCTION"]
---

The [parameter interface](ABENPARAMETER_INTERFACE_GLOSRY.html) of a function module is defined in the form-based Function Builder or in the [ABAP development tools for Eclipse (ADT)](ABENADT_GLOSRY.html). It comprises the definition of interface parameters and the specification of exceptions that can be raised by a function module. ADT uses an editor with statements in ABAP pseudo syntax and the Function Builder automatically creates comment lines below the statement [`FUNCTION`](ABAPFUNCTION.html) in the source code of a function module that are based on the form-based input, which represent the interface of the function module as follows:

``... [IMPORTING [`parameters`](ABENFUNCTION_PARAMETERS.html)]``\\ 
    ``[EXPORTING [`parameters`](ABENFUNCTION_PARAMETERS.html)]``\\ 
    ``[TABLES [`table_parameters`](ABAPTABLES_PARAMETERS_OBSOLETE.html)]``\\ 
    ``[CHANGING [`parameters`](ABENFUNCTION_PARAMETERS.html)]``\\ 
    `[\{RAISING exc1|RESUMABLE(exc1) exc2|RESUMABLE(exc2) ...\}`\\ 
    `|\{EXCEPTIONS exc1 exc2 ...\}]`

The syntax and semantics of `IMPORTING`, `EXPORTING`, `CHANGING`, `RAISING`, and `EXCEPTIONS` mainly correspond to the definition of method interfaces with [`[CLASS-]METHODS`](ABAPMETHODS_GENERAL.html). The additional option of defining table parameters using [`TABLES`](ABAPTABLES_PARAMETERS_OBSOLETE.html) is obsolete.

In the [ABAP development tools for Eclipse](ABENADT_GLOSRY.html) the parameter interface of a function module is defined in ABAP pseudo syntax. These statements are not compiled like genuine ABAP statements and are not subject to the regular ABAP syntax checks.

They are interpreted like the form-based instructions of the classic Function Builder when a function module is generated.

The interface parameters are defined in the ADT in ABAP pseudo syntax and in the Function Builder on the corresponding tab pages.

The formal parameters of a function module can be registered as [global parameters](ABENGLOBAL_PARAMETERS_OBSOLETE.html) in the Function Builder. However, this is obsolete.

The exceptions of a function module are defined in the ADT in ABAP pseudo syntax or on the *Exceptions* tab in the Function Builder. When *exception classes* are selected, it is specified whether it is a declaration of a [class-based exception](ABENCLASS_BASED_EXCEPTION_GLOSRY.html) or a [non-class-based exception](ABENEXCEPTIONS_NON_CLASS.html). Class-based exceptions are represented in the above syntax by `RAISING` and non-class-based exceptions are represented by `EXCEPTIONS`.

For class-based exceptions, the *Resumable* column can be selected in the Function Builder to mark a class-based exception as a [resumable exception](ABENRESUMABLE_EXCEPTION_GLOSRY.html). This places the addition `RESUMABLE` behind `RAISING` in the syntax above.

[Using Class-Based Exceptions](ABENCLASS_EXCEPTION_GUIDL.html)

For new developments, it is recommended that class-based exceptions that are independent of individual function modules are used.

See also [Class-Based Exceptions in Procedures](ABENEXCEPTIONS_PROCEDURES.html).

Comment lines generated by the tools for different types of actual parameters and a class-based resumable exception of a function module.

-   `IMPORTING` parameters are input parameters. When the function module is called, a suitable actual parameter must be specified for each non-optional input parameter. The content of the actual parameter is passed to the input parameter when it is called. The content of an input parameter for which 'pass by reference' is defined cannot be changed in the function module.
-   `EXPORTING` parameters are output parameters. When the function module is called, a suitable actual parameter can be specified for each output parameter. The content of an output parameter that is defined for 'pass by value' is passed to the actual parameter if the function module is completed without errors. An output parameter that is defined for pass by reference is not initialized when the function module is called.
-   `TABLES` parameters are [obsolete table parameters](ABAPTABLES_PARAMETERS_OBSOLETE.html).
-   `CHANGING` parameters are input and output parameters. When the function module is called, a suitable actual parameter must be specified for each non-optional input or output parameter. The content of the actual parameter is passed to the input/output parameter when the parameter is called, and the content of the input/output parameter is passed to the actual parameter when the function module is completed.

-   The addition `RAISING` is used to declare class-based exceptions that can be propagated from the function module to the caller. Exceptions of the categories `CX_STATIC_CHECK` and `CX_DYNAMIC_CHECK` must be declared explicitly, otherwise a propagation leads to an interface violation. A violation of the interface raises the catchable exception `CX_SY_NO_HANDLER`. Exceptions of the category `CX_NO_CHECK` are always declared implicitly with the addition `RESUMABLE`, but they can also be declared explicitly. The declaration of exceptions of the category `CX_STATIC_CHECK` is checked statically during syntax check. For exceptions of the category `CX_DYNAMIC_CHECK`, the check is not performed until runtime. For exceptions of the category `CX_NO_CHECK` no check is performed. In a function module in which class-based exceptions are declared using the addition `RAISING`, the obsolete statement [`CATCH SYSTEM-EXCEPTIONS`](ABAPCATCH_SYS.html) cannot be used to handle [catchable runtime errors](ABENCATCHABLE_RUNTIME_ERROR_GLOSRY.html). Instead, the catchable exceptions assigned to the runtime errors are intended to be handled in a [`TRY`](ABAPTRY.html) control structure.
-   The addition `RESUMABLE` declares an exception so that it can be propagated as a [resumable exception](ABENRESUMABLE_EXCEPTION_GLOSRY.html), which is then also propagated as such. The addition has no effect on a non-resumable exception. If a resumable exception is propagated in `RAISING` without the addition`RESUMABLE`, it becomes non-resumable. If a superclass is declared as resumable, all of the simultaneously listed subclasses must also be declared as resumable.
-   The addition `EXCEPTIONS` is used to define a list of non-class-based exceptions that can be raised in the function module using the statements [`RAISE`](ABAPRAISE_EXCEPTION.html) or [`MESSAGE RAISING`](ABAPMESSAGE_RAISING.html). Exceptions defined in this way are bound to the function module, similarly to formal parameters, and cannot be propagated. If such an exception is raised in a function module, and no return value was assigned to it with the identically named addition `EXCEPTIONS` of the statement [`CALL FUNCTION`](ABAPCALL_FUNCTION.html) during the call, a runtime error occurs. In a function module in whose interface non-class-based exceptions are defined, the statement [`RAISE EXCEPTION`](ABAPRAISE_EXCEPTION_CLASS.html) or the addition [`THROW`](ABENCONDITIONAL_EXPRESSION_RESULT.html) in a [conditional expression](ABENCONDITIONAL_EXPRESSIONS.html) cannot be used to raise class-based exceptions.

\*"---------------------------------------------------------------------- \\n\*"\*"Local Interface: \\n\*" IMPORTING \\n\*" REFERENCE(P1) TYPE I \\n\*" REFERENCE(P2) TYPE I OPTIONAL \\n\*" REFERENCE(P3) TYPE I DEFAULT 100 \\n\*" EXPORTING \\n\*" REFERENCE(P4) TYPE SCARR \\n\*" CHANGING \\n\*" VALUE(P5) TYPE SPFLI OPTIONAL \\n\*" RAISING \\n\*" RESUMABLE(CX\_NO\_FLIGHTS) \\n\*"---------------------------------------------------------------------- abenabap.html abenabap\_reference.html abenabap\_program\_layout.html abenabap\_language\_modularization.html abenabap\_language\_procedures.html abenabap\_functions.html abapfunction.html