---
title: "ABENNESTED_INTERNAL_TABLES_ABEXA"
description: |
  ABENNESTED_INTERNAL_TABLES_ABEXA - Standard ABAP language reference documentation
library: "standard"
libraryName: "Standard ABAP"
category: "data-structures"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_latest_index_htm/latest/en-US/ABENNESTED_INTERNAL_TABLES_ABEXA.htm"
abapFile: "ABENNESTED_INTERNAL_TABLES_ABEXA.html"
keywords: ["loop", "if", "method", "class", "data", "types", "internal-table", "field-symbol", "ABENNESTED", "INTERNAL", "TABLES", "ABEXA"]
---

This example demonstrates how nested internal tables are declared and used.

The example shows the declaration of two internal tables, `t_address_tab` and `company_tab`, where `t_address_tab` is contained in `company_tab`. For this, `t_address_tab` is defined as the table type. The component `addresses` of the `company` structure is declared with this type. The data type of `company` is used as the line type for the tables `company_tab` and `company_sorted_tab`.

The internal table is filled using the value operator [`VALUE`](ABENCONSTRUCTOR_EXPRESSION_VALUE.html).

A line from `company_tab` is assigned to the field symbol `<fs>` using [`READ`](ABAPREAD_TABLE.html) and its table-like component `addresses` is processed in a [`LOOP`](ABAPLOOP_AT_ITAB_SHORTREF.html). The content of the line is assigned to the structure `address`. Since `addresses` is an index table, `sy-tabix` can be evaluated.

To change the content of the component `street` of a line of the inner table `addresses`, the index of the required line is determined using a `READ` statement and it is then used in [`MODIFY`](ABAPMODIFY_ITAB.html). To make the changes effective in the corresponding line of the outer hashed table as well, the key access of the `MODIFY` statement is used.

Finally, the hashed table is assigned a sorted table with the same line type. In this way, the entries are automatically sorted according to the table key `name`. The entries of the inner standard table, on the other hand, are sorted using the [`SORT`](ABAPSORT_ITAB.html) statement.

\* Public class definition \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_nested\_internal\_tables DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n\\ \\n PRIVATE SECTION. \\n TYPES: \\n BEGIN OF t\_address, \\n street TYPE c LENGTH 20, \\n city TYPE c LENGTH 20, \\n END OF t\_address, \\n t\_address\_tab TYPE STANDARD TABLE \\n OF t\_address \\n WITH NON-UNIQUE KEY city. \\n DATA: \\n BEGIN OF company, \\n name TYPE c LENGTH 20, \\n addresses TYPE t\_address\_tab, \\n END OF company, \\n company\_tab LIKE HASHED TABLE \\n OF company \\n WITH UNIQUE KEY name, \\n company\_sorted\_tab LIKE SORTED TABLE \\n OF company \\n WITH UNIQUE KEY name. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_nested\_internal\_tables IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n DATA: address TYPE t\_address, \\n idx TYPE sy-tabix. \\n FIELD-SYMBOLS LIKE company. \\n\\ \\n\* Filling Internal Tables \\n company\_tab = VALUE #( \\n ( name = 'Racing Bikes Inc.' \\n addresses = VALUE #( ( street = 'Fifth Avenue' \\n city = 'New York' ) \\n ( street = 'Second Street' \\n city = 'Boston' ) ) ) \\n ( name = 'Chocolatiers Suisse' \\n addresses = VALUE #( ( street = 'Avenue des Forets' \\n city = 'Geneve' ) \\n ( street = 'Kleine Bachgasse' \\n city = 'Basel' ) \\n ( street = 'Piazza di Lago' \\n city = 'Lugano' ) ) ) ). \\n\\ \\n out->next\_section( \`Table\` ). \\n\\ \\n out->write( company\_tab ). \\n\\ \\n out->next\_section( \`Some accesses\` ). \\n\\ \\n\* Reading Internal Tables \\n READ TABLE company\_tab \\n WITH TABLE KEY name = 'Racing Bikes Inc.' \\n ASSIGNING . \\n out->write( |\\{ \-name \\}| ). \\n LOOP AT \-addresses INTO address. \\n out->write( | \\{ sy-tabix WIDTH = 4 \\}\\{ \\n address-street WIDTH = 20 \\}\\{ \\n address-city WIDTH = 20 \\} | ). \\n ENDLOOP. \\n\* Modifying Internal Tables \\n address-street = 'Rue des Montagnes'. \\n address-city = 'Geneve'. \\n READ TABLE company\_tab \\n WITH TABLE KEY name = 'Chocolatiers Suisse' \\n INTO company. \\n READ TABLE company-addresses TRANSPORTING NO FIELDS \\n WITH TABLE KEY city = address-city. \\n idx = sy-tabix. \\n MODIFY company-addresses FROM address INDEX idx. \\n MODIFY TABLE company\_tab FROM company. \\n\* Moving and sorting Internal Tables \\n company\_sorted\_tab = company\_tab. \\n LOOP AT company\_sorted\_tab INTO company. \\n out->write( |\\{ company-name \\}| ). \\n SORT company-addresses. "#EC CI\_SORTLOOP \\n LOOP AT company-addresses INTO address. \\n out->write( | \\{ sy-tabix WIDTH = 4 \\}\\{ \\n address-street WIDTH = 20 \\}\\{ \\n address-city WIDTH = 20 \\} | ). \\n ENDLOOP. \\n ENDLOOP. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. \* Public class definition \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_nested\_internal\_tables DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n\\ \\n PRIVATE SECTION. \\n TYPES: \\n BEGIN OF t\_address, \\n street TYPE c LENGTH 20, \\n city TYPE c LENGTH 20, \\n END OF t\_address, \\n t\_address\_tab TYPE STANDARD TABLE \\n OF t\_address \\n WITH NON-UNIQUE KEY city. \\n DATA: \\n BEGIN OF company, \\n name TYPE c LENGTH 20, \\n addresses TYPE t\_address\_tab, \\n END OF company, \\n company\_tab LIKE HASHED TABLE \\n OF company \\n WITH UNIQUE KEY name, \\n company\_sorted\_tab LIKE SORTED TABLE \\n OF company \\n WITH UNIQUE KEY name. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_nested\_internal\_tables IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n DATA: address TYPE t\_address, \\n idx TYPE sy-tabix. \\n FIELD-SYMBOLS LIKE company. \\n\\ \\n\* Filling Internal Tables \\n company\_tab = VALUE #( \\n ( name = 'Racing Bikes Inc.' \\n addresses = VALUE #( ( street = 'Fifth Avenue' \\n city = 'New York' ) \\n ( street = 'Second Street' \\n city = 'Boston' ) ) ) \\n ( name = 'Chocolatiers Suisse' \\n addresses = VALUE #( ( street = 'Avenue des Forets' \\n city = 'Geneve' ) \\n ( street = 'Kleine Bachgasse' \\n city = 'Basel' ) \\n ( street = 'Piazza di Lago' \\n city = 'Lugano' ) ) ) ). \\n\\ \\n out->next\_section( \`Table\` ). \\n\\ \\n out->write( company\_tab ). \\n\\ \\n out->next\_section( \`Some accesses\` ). \\n\\ \\n\* Reading Internal Tables \\n READ TABLE company\_tab \\n WITH TABLE KEY name = 'Racing Bikes Inc.' \\n ASSIGNING . \\n out->write( |\\{ \-name \\}| ). \\n LOOP AT \-addresses INTO address. \\n out->write( | \\{ sy-tabix WIDTH = 4 \\}\\{ \\n address-street WIDTH = 20 \\}\\{ \\n address-city WIDTH = 20 \\} | ). \\n ENDLOOP. \\n\* Modifying Internal Tables \\n address-street = 'Rue des Montagnes'. \\n address-city = 'Geneve'. \\n READ TABLE company\_tab \\n WITH TABLE KEY name = 'Chocolatiers Suisse' \\n INTO company. \\n READ TABLE company-addresses TRANSPORTING NO FIELDS \\n WITH TABLE KEY city = address-city. \\n idx = sy-tabix. \\n MODIFY company-addresses FROM address INDEX idx. \\n MODIFY TABLE company\_tab FROM company. \\n\* Moving and sorting Internal Tables \\n company\_sorted\_tab = company\_tab. \\n LOOP AT company\_sorted\_tab INTO company. \\n out->write( |\\{ company-name \\}| ). \\n SORT company-addresses. "#EC CI\_SORTLOOP \\n LOOP AT company-addresses INTO address. \\n out->write( | \\{ sy-tabix WIDTH = 4 \\}\\{ \\n address-street WIDTH = 20 \\}\\{ \\n address-city WIDTH = 20 \\} | ). \\n ENDLOOP. \\n ENDLOOP. \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. abenabap.html abenabap\_reference.html abendeclarations.html abenabap\_declarations.html abentypes\_statements.html abaptypes.html abaptypes\_itab.html