---
title: "ABENWITH_DYNAMIC_ABEXA"
description: |
  ABENWITH_DYNAMIC_ABEXA - Standard ABAP language reference documentation
library: "standard"
libraryName: "Standard ABAP"
category: "general"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_latest_index_htm/latest/en-US/ABENWITH_DYNAMIC_ABEXA.htm"
abapFile: "ABENWITH_DYNAMIC_ABEXA.html"
keywords: ["select", "loop", "method", "class", "data", "internal-table", "ABENWITH", "DYNAMIC", "ABEXA"]
---

This example demonstrates the dynamic form of statement [`WITH`](ABAPWITH.html) and also of statement [`OPEN CURSOR`](ABAPOPEN_CURSOR.html).

First, a static form of [`WITH`](ABAPWITH.html) is executed, then dynamic tokens for the dynamic form are constructed that contain the same syntax as the static form.

Then, the `WITH` token itself is included in dynamic tokens that are used in the dynamic form of [`OPEN CURSOR`](ABAPOPEN_CURSOR.html):

All ABAP SQL queries yield the same result.

-   The first dynamic form uses an internal table `token_tab` that contains the syntax.
-   The next dynamic form uses a text string `token_string` that contains the syntax.
-   The next dynamic form demonstrates a dynamic `WITH` loop terminated with `ENDWITH`.

-   The first dynamic form uses an internal table `with_tab` that contains the syntax.
-   The next dynamic form uses a text string `with_string` that contains the syntax.

\* Public class definition \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_dynamic\_with\_open\_curs DEFINITION \\n PUBLIC \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n CREATE PUBLIC . \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main \\n REDEFINITION . \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_dynamic\_with\_open\_curs IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n DATA from\_id TYPE spfli-carrid VALUE 'AA'. \\n DATA to\_id TYPE spfli-carrid VALUE 'UA'. \\n\\ \\n "Static form of WITH statement \\n WITH \\n +connections AS ( \\n SELECT spfli~carrid, carrname, connid, cityfrom, cityto \\n FROM spfli \\n INNER JOIN scarr \\n ON scarr~carrid = spfli~carrid \\n WHERE spfli~carrid BETWEEN @from\_id AND @to\_id ), \\n +sum\_seats AS ( \\n SELECT carrid, connid, SUM( seatsocc ) AS sum\_seats \\n FROM sflight \\n WHERE carrid BETWEEN @from\_id AND @to\_id \\n GROUP BY carrid, connid ), \\n +result( name, connection, departure, arrival, occupied ) AS ( \\n SELECT carrname, c~connid, cityfrom, cityto, sum\_seats \\n FROM +connections AS c \\n INNER JOIN +sum\_seats AS s \\n ON c~carrid = s~carrid AND \\n c~connid = s~connid ) \\n SELECT \* \\n FROM +result \\n ORDER BY name, connection \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(result). \\n\\ \\n DATA dyn\_result LIKE result. \\n\\ \\n "Fill token table with same syntax as static form \\n DATA token\_tab TYPE TABLE OF string WITH EMPTY KEY. \\n token\_tab = VALUE #( \\n ( \`+connections AS (\` ) \\n ( \` SELECT spfli~carrid, carrname, connid, cityfrom, cityto\` ) \\n ( \` FROM spfli\` ) \\n ( \` INNER JOIN scarr\` ) \\n ( \` ON scarr~carrid = spfli~carrid\` ) \\n ( \` WHERE spfli~carrid BETWEEN @from\_id AND @to\_id ),\` ) \\n ( \`+sum\_seats AS (\` ) \\n ( \` SELECT carrid, connid, SUM( seatsocc ) AS sum\_seats\` ) \\n ( \` FROM sflight\` ) \\n ( \` WHERE carrid BETWEEN @from\_id AND @to\_id\` ) \\n ( \` GROUP BY carrid, connid ),\` ) \\n ( \`+result( name, connection, departure, arrival, occupied ) \` ) \\n ( \` AS (\` ) \\n ( \` SELECT carrname, c~connid, cityfrom, cityto, sum\_seats\` ) \\n ( \` FROM +connections AS c\` ) \\n ( \` INNER JOIN +sum\_seats AS s\` ) \\n ( \` ON c~carrid = s~carrid AND\` ) \\n ( \` c~connid = s~connid )\` ) \\n ( \`SELECT \*\` ) \\n ( \` FROM +result\` ) \\n ( \` ORDER BY name, connection\` ) \\n ). \\n\\ \\n "Dynamic form of WITH statement with token table \\n WITH (token\_tab) \\n INTO TABLE @dyn\_result. \\n ASSERT result = dyn\_result. \\n\\ \\n "Dynamic form of WITH statement with token string \\n DATA token\_string TYPE string. \\n CONCATENATE LINES OF token\_tab INTO token\_string SEPARATED BY \` \`. \\n WITH (token\_string) \\n INTO TABLE @dyn\_result. \\n ASSERT result = dyn\_result. \\n\\ \\n DATA dyn\_wa LIKE LINE OF dyn\_result. \\n\\ \\n "Dynamic form of WITH loop with token string \\n CLEAR dyn\_result. \\n WITH (token\_string) \\n INTO @dyn\_wa. \\n APPEND dyn\_wa TO dyn\_result. \\n ENDWITH. \\n ASSERT result = dyn\_result. \\n\\ \\n "Put WITH also into the token table \\n DATA with\_tab LIKE token\_tab. \\n with\_tab = VALUE #( \\n ( \`WITH\` ) \\n ( LINES OF token\_tab ) \\n ). \\n\\ \\n "Dynamic form of OPEN CURSOR with token table \\n OPEN CURSOR @DATA(dbcur) FOR \\n (with\_tab). \\n "DATA dyn\_fetch\_result LIKE result. \\n FETCH NEXT CURSOR @dbcur INTO TABLE @dyn\_result. \\n ASSERT result = dyn\_result. \\n CLOSE CURSOR @dbcur. \\n\\ \\n "Dynamic form of OPEN CURSOR with token string \\n DATA(with\_string) = \`WITH \` && token\_string. \\n OPEN CURSOR @dbcur FOR \\n (with\_string). \\n FETCH NEXT CURSOR @dbcur INTO TABLE @dyn\_result. \\n ASSERT result = dyn\_result. \\n CLOSE CURSOR @dbcur. \\n\\ \\n out->write( dyn\_result ). \\n\\ \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. \* Public class definition \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_dynamic\_with\_open\_curs DEFINITION \\n PUBLIC \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n CREATE PUBLIC . \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main \\n REDEFINITION . \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_dynamic\_with\_open\_curs IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n DATA from\_id TYPE spfli-carrid VALUE 'AA'. \\n DATA to\_id TYPE spfli-carrid VALUE 'UA'. \\n\\ \\n "Static form of WITH statement \\n WITH \\n +connections AS ( \\n SELECT spfli~carrid, carrname, connid, cityfrom, cityto \\n FROM spfli \\n INNER JOIN scarr \\n ON scarr~carrid = spfli~carrid \\n WHERE spfli~carrid BETWEEN @from\_id AND @to\_id ), \\n +sum\_seats AS ( \\n SELECT carrid, connid, SUM( seatsocc ) AS sum\_seats \\n FROM sflight \\n WHERE carrid BETWEEN @from\_id AND @to\_id \\n GROUP BY carrid, connid ), \\n +result( name, connection, departure, arrival, occupied ) AS ( \\n SELECT carrname, c~connid, cityfrom, cityto, sum\_seats \\n FROM +connections AS c \\n INNER JOIN +sum\_seats AS s \\n ON c~carrid = s~carrid AND \\n c~connid = s~connid ) \\n SELECT \* \\n FROM +result \\n ORDER BY name, connection \\n INTO TABLE @FINAL(result). \\n\\ \\n DATA dyn\_result LIKE result. \\n\\ \\n "Fill token table with same syntax as static form \\n DATA token\_tab TYPE TABLE OF string WITH EMPTY KEY. \\n token\_tab = VALUE #( \\n ( \`+connections AS (\` ) \\n ( \` SELECT spfli~carrid, carrname, connid, cityfrom, cityto\` ) \\n ( \` FROM spfli\` ) \\n ( \` INNER JOIN scarr\` ) \\n ( \` ON scarr~carrid = spfli~carrid\` ) \\n ( \` WHERE spfli~carrid BETWEEN @from\_id AND @to\_id ),\` ) \\n ( \`+sum\_seats AS (\` ) \\n ( \` SELECT carrid, connid, SUM( seatsocc ) AS sum\_seats\` ) \\n ( \` FROM sflight\` ) \\n ( \` WHERE carrid BETWEEN @from\_id AND @to\_id\` ) \\n ( \` GROUP BY carrid, connid ),\` ) \\n ( \`+result( name, connection, departure, arrival, occupied ) \` ) \\n ( \` AS (\` ) \\n ( \` SELECT carrname, c~connid, cityfrom, cityto, sum\_seats\` ) \\n ( \` FROM +connections AS c\` ) \\n ( \` INNER JOIN +sum\_seats AS s\` ) \\n ( \` ON c~carrid = s~carrid AND\` ) \\n ( \` c~connid = s~connid )\` ) \\n ( \`SELECT \*\` ) \\n ( \` FROM +result\` ) \\n ( \` ORDER BY name, connection\` ) \\n ). \\n\\ \\n "Dynamic form of WITH statement with token table \\n WITH (token\_tab) \\n INTO TABLE @dyn\_result. \\n ASSERT result = dyn\_result. \\n\\ \\n "Dynamic form of WITH statement with token string \\n DATA token\_string TYPE string. \\n CONCATENATE LINES OF token\_tab INTO token\_string SEPARATED BY \` \`. \\n WITH (token\_string) \\n INTO TABLE @dyn\_result. \\n ASSERT result = dyn\_result. \\n\\ \\n DATA dyn\_wa LIKE LINE OF dyn\_result. \\n\\ \\n "Dynamic form of WITH loop with token string \\n CLEAR dyn\_result. \\n WITH (token\_string) \\n INTO @dyn\_wa. \\n APPEND dyn\_wa TO dyn\_result. \\n ENDWITH. \\n ASSERT result = dyn\_result. \\n\\ \\n "Put WITH also into the token table \\n DATA with\_tab LIKE token\_tab. \\n with\_tab = VALUE #( \\n ( \`WITH\` ) \\n ( LINES OF token\_tab ) \\n ). \\n\\ \\n "Dynamic form of OPEN CURSOR with token table \\n OPEN CURSOR @DATA(dbcur) FOR \\n (with\_tab). \\n "DATA dyn\_fetch\_result LIKE result. \\n FETCH NEXT CURSOR @dbcur INTO TABLE @dyn\_result. \\n ASSERT result = dyn\_result. \\n CLOSE CURSOR @dbcur. \\n\\ \\n "Dynamic form of OPEN CURSOR with token string \\n DATA(with\_string) = \`WITH \` && token\_string. \\n OPEN CURSOR @dbcur FOR \\n (with\_string). \\n FETCH NEXT CURSOR @dbcur INTO TABLE @dyn\_result. \\n ASSERT result = dyn\_result. \\n CLOSE CURSOR @dbcur. \\n\\ \\n out->write( dyn\_result ). \\n\\ \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. abenabap.html abenabap\_reference.html abendb\_access.html abenabap\_sql.html abenabap\_sql\_reading.html abapwith.html abenwith\_abexas.html