---
title: "ABENDYNPRO_CFW_ABEXA"
description: |
  ABENDYNPRO_CFW_ABEXA - Standard ABAP language reference documentation
library: "standard"
libraryName: "Standard ABAP"
category: "ui"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_latest_index_htm/latest/en-US/ABENDYNPRO_CFW_ABEXA.htm"
abapFile: "ABENDYNPRO_CFW_ABEXA.html"
keywords: ["select", "delete", "loop", "do", "if", "method", "class", "data", "types", "internal-table", "ABENDYNPRO", "CFW", "ABEXA"]
---

The example illustrates the use of different GUI controls in a dynpro.

The screen of dynpro 100 contains a custom control named `CUSTOM_CONTROL` that covers the entire screen area. In the flow logic, both dialog modules `status_0100` and `cancel` are called. The addition `AT EXIT-COMMAND` is used at PAI.

In the GUI status `SCREEN_100`, the usual symbols of the standard tool bar are filled with function codes of the type *E*. The PAI module is only used to exit the program. The most important action at PBO is calling the static method `create_screen` of the local class `screen_handler`, in which an object of this class is created.

The instance constructor of the class `screen_handler` creates container controls for a picture control and a tree control and afterwards both application controls themselves.

By calling the method `set_registered_events`, the double-click event for the nodes of the tree is activated as a system event. The method `handle_node_double_click` is registered as the event handler.

When the instance constructor is exited, all reference variables are deleted. However, the control objects created in the constructor with local reference variables are not collected by the Garbage Collector, since they are persisted by references from the CFW.

The method `fill_picture` imports an image file in GIF format from the MIME Repository into a byte string `l_pict_wa`, which is then filled into an internal table `l_pict_tab`. The function module `DP_CREATE_URL` creates a URL address for this table in the local variable `l_url`, which is passed to the method `load_picture_from_url` of the picture control.

The method `fill_tree` creates the tree structure of the tree control in the internal table `l_node_table` of the line structure `ABDEMONODE`. Every line of the table describes a node of the tree structure and must have a unique node key `node_key`. The components `relatkey` and `relatship` describe the relationships between the nodes.

The node table is generated from the content of the database table `SPFLI`. In the subnodes, the standard icons for non-expanded and expanded nodes are replaced with aircraft icons.

The event handler method `handle_node_double_click` imports the parameter `node_key` of the event `node_double_click` of the class `CL_GUI_SIMPLE_TREE`, which contains the key of the selected node. Depending on the content, the methods `fill_html` or `fill_list` are called.

When the method `fill_html` is called for the first time, it creates an object of the class `CL_GUI_HTML_VIEWER` and links the associated HTML control with the area of the container control to which the reference in `container_html` points, namely with the custom control on the dynpro. In accordance with the selected node, the web address of an airline is read and passed to the method `show_url` of the HTML control, which displays the Homepage of the airline.

The method `fill_list` creates a dialog box container and an ALV grid control that is displayed in the dialog box. The event handler `close_box` is registered for the dialog box container. Activation using the method `set_registered_events` is not necessary here, as the event is activated by the class itself as system event when the object is created. A list is created for the selected node. By assigning values to some components of the structure `l_list_layout` of the type `lvc_s_layo`, it is determined that the list title is displayed in a small format, and that the column width of the list is optimized, and that the list should not have an application toolbar. By calling the method `set_table_for_first_display` of the ALV grid control, the list is displayed in the dialog box.

The event handler method `close_box` closes the dialog box. To do this, the methods `free` of the controls involved are called one after another and the associated reference variables initialized. After that, if a node is selected to create a list, both controls are created again in the method `fill_list`. All other controls of the program cannot be deleted by the user and are available until the program ends.

The class `CL_SALV_TABLE` and other classes with the prefix `CL_SALV_` offer more convenient ways of displaying ALV controls.

-   First, a docking control is created with the local reference variable `l_docking`. By passing the constant `dock_at_left` of the class `CL_GUI_DOCKING_CONTAINER` to the parameter `side`, a new area is created on the left side of the screen layout with a width of 135 pixels.
-   This screen area is split into two horizontal areas. This is done using the local reference variable `l_splitter`, which creates an object of the class `CL_GUI_SPLITTER_CONTAINER` and passes the reference to the docking control to the parameter `parent`.
-   Using the functional method `get_container`, the references to both areas of the splitter control are determined in the local reference variables `l_container_top` and `l_container_bottom`. Afterwards, the application controls picture and tree are created, at which the parameter `parent` of each constructor receives one of the references to the areas of the splitter control.

\\n\\n\\n\\nREPORT demo\_cfw.\\n\\n\\n\\n\\n\\n\\n\\nCLASS screen\_handler DEFINITION CREATE PRIVATE.\\n PUBLIC SECTION.\\n CLASS-DATA screen TYPE REF TO screen\_handler.\\n CLASS-METHODS create\_screen.\\n METHODS constructor.\\n PRIVATE SECTION.\\n DATA: container\_html TYPE REF TO cl\_gui\_custom\_container,\\n container\_box TYPE REF TO cl\_gui\_dialogbox\_container,\\n picture TYPE REF TO cl\_gui\_picture,\\n tree TYPE REF TO cl\_gui\_simple\_tree,\\n html\_viewer TYPE REF TO cl\_gui\_html\_viewer,\\n list\_viewer TYPE REF TO cl\_gui\_alv\_grid.\\n METHODS: fill\_tree,\\n fill\_picture,\\n handle\_node\_double\_click\\n FOR EVENT node\_double\_click OF cl\_gui\_simple\_tree\\n IMPORTING node\_key,\\n close\_box\\n FOR EVENT close OF cl\_gui\_dialogbox\_container,\\n fill\_html IMPORTING i\_carrid TYPE spfli-carrid,\\n fill\_list IMPORTING i\_carrid TYPE spfli-carrid\\n i\_connid TYPE spfli-connid.\\nENDCLASS. "screen\_handler DEFINITION\\n\\n\\n\\nCLASS screen\_handler IMPLEMENTATION.\\n\\n METHOD create\_screen.\\n IF screen IS INITIAL.\\n CREATE OBJECT screen.\\n ENDIF.\\n ENDMETHOD. "create\_screen\\n\\n METHOD constructor.\\n DATA: l\_event\_tab TYPE cntl\_simple\_events,\\n l\_event LIKE LINE OF l\_event\_tab,\\n l\_docking TYPE REF TO cl\_gui\_docking\_container,\\n l\_splitter TYPE REF TO cl\_gui\_splitter\_container,\\n l\_container\_screen TYPE REF TO cl\_gui\_custom\_container,\\n l\_container\_top TYPE REF TO cl\_gui\_container,\\n l\_container\_bottom TYPE REF TO cl\_gui\_container.\\n\\n CREATE OBJECT container\_html\\n EXPORTING\\n container\_name = 'CUSTOM\_CONTROL'.\\n\\n CREATE OBJECT l\_docking\\n EXPORTING\\n side = cl\_gui\_docking\_container=>dock\_at\_left\\n extension = 135.\\n\\n CREATE OBJECT l\_splitter\\n EXPORTING\\n parent = l\_docking\\n rows = 2\\n columns = 1.\\n\\n l\_splitter->set\_border(\\n EXPORTING border = cl\_gui\_cfw=>false ).\\n\\n l\_splitter->set\_row\_mode(\\n EXPORTING mode = l\_splitter->mode\_absolute ).\\n\\n l\_splitter->set\_row\_height(\\n EXPORTING id = 1\\n height = 180 ).\\n\\n l\_container\_top =\\n l\_splitter->get\_container( row = 1 column = 1 ).\\n l\_container\_bottom =\\n l\_splitter->get\_container( row = 2 column = 1 ).\\n\\n CREATE OBJECT picture\\n EXPORTING\\n parent = l\_container\_top.\\n\\n CREATE OBJECT tree\\n EXPORTING\\n parent = l\_container\_bottom\\n node\_selection\_mode =\\n cl\_gui\_simple\_tree=>node\_sel\_mode\_single.\\n\\n l\_event-eventid = cl\_gui\_simple\_tree=>eventid\_node\_double\_click.\\n l\_event-appl\_event = ' '. "system event, does not trigger PAI\\n APPEND l\_event TO l\_event\_tab.\\n tree->set\_registered\_events(\\n EXPORTING events = l\_event\_tab ).\\n SET HANDLER me->handle\_node\_double\_click FOR tree.\\n\\n me->fill\_picture( ).\\n me->fill\_tree( ).\\n ENDMETHOD. "constructor\\n\\n METHOD fill\_picture.\\n TYPES pict\_line TYPE x LENGTH 1022.\\n DATA l\_mime\_api TYPE REF TO if\_mr\_api.\\n DATA l\_pict\_wa TYPE xstring.\\n DATA l\_pict\_tab TYPE TABLE OF pict\_line.\\n DATA l\_url TYPE c LENGTH 255.\\n\\n l\_mime\_api = cl\_mime\_repository\_api=>get\_api( ).\\n\\n l\_mime\_api->get(\\n EXPORTING i\_url = '/SAP/PUBLIC/BC/ABAP/mime\_demo/PLANE.GIF'\\n IMPORTING e\_content = l\_pict\_wa\\n EXCEPTIONS OTHERS = 4 ).\\n\\n IF sy-subrc <> 0.\\n RETURN.\\n ENDIF.\\n\\n l\_pict\_tab =\\n VALUE #( LET l1 = xstrlen( l\_pict\_wa ) l2 = l1 - 1022 IN\\n FOR j = 0 THEN j + 1022 UNTIL j >= l1\\n ( COND #( WHEN j <= l2 THEN\\n l\_pict\_wa+j(1022)\\n ELSE l\_pict\_wa+j ) ) ).\\n\\n CALL FUNCTION 'DP\_CREATE\_URL'\\n EXPORTING\\n type = 'IMAGE'\\n subtype = 'GIF'\\n TABLES\\n data = l\_pict\_tab\\n CHANGING\\n url = l\_url\\n EXCEPTIONS\\n OTHERS = 4.\\n IF sy-subrc <> 0.\\n LEAVE PROGRAM.\\n ENDIF.\\n\\n picture->load\_picture\_from\_url(\\n EXPORTING url = l\_url ).\\n picture->set\_display\_mode(\\n EXPORTING display\_mode = picture->display\_mode\_stretch ).\\n ENDMETHOD. "fill\_picture\\n\\n METHOD fill\_tree.\\n DATA: l\_node\_table TYPE TABLE OF abdemonode,\\n l\_node TYPE abdemonode,\\n BEGIN OF l\_spfli,\\n carrid TYPE spfli-carrid,\\n connid TYPE spfli-connid,\\n END OF l\_spfli,\\n l\_spfli\_tab LIKE SORTED TABLE OF l\_spfli\\n WITH UNIQUE KEY carrid connid.\\n\\n SELECT carrid, connid\\n FROM spfli\\n INTO CORRESPONDING FIELDS OF TABLE @l\_spfli\_tab.\\n\\n l\_node-hidden = ' '. " All nodes are visible,\\n l\_node-disabled = ' '. " selectable,\\n l\_node-isfolder = 'X'. " a folder,\\n l\_node-expander = ' '. " have no '+' sign for expansion.\\n\\n LOOP AT l\_spfli\_tab INTO l\_spfli.\\n AT NEW carrid.\\n l\_node-node\_key = l\_spfli-carrid.\\n CLEAR l\_node-relatkey.\\n CLEAR l\_node-relatship.\\n l\_node-text = l\_spfli-carrid.\\n l\_node-n\_image = ' '.\\n l\_node-exp\_image = ' '.\\n APPEND l\_node TO l\_node\_table.\\n ENDAT.\\n AT NEW connid.\\n l\_node-node\_key = l\_spfli-carrid && l\_spfli-connid.\\n l\_node-relatkey = l\_spfli-carrid.\\n l\_node-relatship = cl\_gui\_simple\_tree=>relat\_last\_child.\\n l\_node-text = l\_spfli-connid.\\n l\_node-n\_image = '@AV@'. "AV is the internal code\\n l\_node-exp\_image = '@AV@'. "for an airplane icon\\n ENDAT.\\n APPEND l\_node TO l\_node\_table.\\n ENDLOOP.\\n\\n tree->add\_nodes(\\n EXPORTING table\_structure\_name = 'ABDEMONODE'\\n node\_table = l\_node\_table ).\\n ENDMETHOD. "fill\_tree\\n\\n METHOD handle\_node\_double\_click.\\n DATA: l\_carrid TYPE spfli-carrid,\\n l\_connid TYPE spfli-connid.\\n\\n l\_carrid = node\_key(2).\\n l\_connid = node\_key+2(4).\\n IF l\_connid IS INITIAL.\\n fill\_html( EXPORTING i\_carrid = l\_carrid ).\\n ELSE.\\n fill\_list( EXPORTING i\_carrid = l\_carrid\\n i\_connid = l\_connid ).\\n ENDIF.\\n ENDMETHOD. "handle\_node\_double\_click\\n\\n METHOD fill\_html.\\n DATA l\_url TYPE scarr-url.\\n\\n IF html\_viewer IS INITIAL.\\n CREATE OBJECT html\_viewer\\n EXPORTING\\n parent = container\_html.\\n ENDIF.\\n\\n SELECT SINGLE url\\n FROM scarr\\n WHERE carrid = @i\_carrid\\n INTO @l\_url.\\n\\n html\_viewer->show\_url(\\n EXPORTING url = l\_url ).\\n ENDMETHOD. "fill\_html\\n\\n METHOD fill\_list.\\n DATA: l\_flight\_tab TYPE TABLE OF demofli,\\n BEGIN OF l\_flight\_title,\\n carrname TYPE scarr-carrname,\\n cityfrom TYPE spfli-cityfrom,\\n cityto TYPE spfli-cityto,\\n END OF l\_flight\_title,\\n l\_list\_layout TYPE lvc\_s\_layo.\\n\\n IF container\_box IS INITIAL.\\n CREATE OBJECT container\_box\\n EXPORTING\\n width = 250\\n height = 200\\n top = 100\\n left = 400\\n caption = 'Flight List'.\\n SET HANDLER close\_box FOR container\_box.\\n CREATE OBJECT list\_viewer\\n EXPORTING\\n i\_parent = container\_box.\\n ENDIF.\\n\\n SELECT SINGLE c~carrname, p~cityfrom, p~cityto "#EC CI\_BUFFJOIN\\n FROM ( scarr AS c\\n INNER JOIN spfli AS p ON c~carrid = p~carrid )\\n WHERE p~carrid = @i\_carrid AND\\n p~connid = @i\_connid\\n INTO CORRESPONDING FIELDS OF @l\_flight\_title.\\n\\n SELECT fldate, seatsmax, seatsocc\\n FROM sflight\\n WHERE carrid = @i\_carrid AND connid = @i\_connid\\n ORDER BY fldate\\n INTO CORRESPONDING FIELDS OF TABLE @l\_flight\_tab.\\n\\n l\_list\_layout-grid\_title = l\_flight\_title-carrname && \` \` &&\\n i\_connid && \` \` &&\\n l\_flight\_title-cityfrom && \` \` &&\\n l\_flight\_title-cityto.\\n\\n l\_list\_layout-smalltitle = 'X'. "The list title has small fonts,\\n l\_list\_layout-cwidth\_opt = 'X'. "the column width is adjusted,\\n l\_list\_layout-no\_toolbar = 'X'. "the toolbar is suppressed.\\n\\n list\_viewer->set\_table\_for\_first\_display(\\n EXPORTING i\_structure\_name = 'DEMOFLI'\\n is\_layout = l\_list\_layout\\n CHANGING it\_outtab = l\_flight\_tab ).\\n ENDMETHOD. "fill\_list\\n\\n METHOD close\_box.\\n list\_viewer->free( ).\\n container\_box->free( ).\\n CLEAR: list\_viewer,\\n container\_box.\\n ENDMETHOD. "close\_box\\n\\nENDCLASS. "screen\_handler IMPLEMENTATION\\n\\n\\n\\n\\n\\n\\n\\nSTART-OF-SELECTION.\\n CALL SCREEN 100.\\n\\n\\n\\nMODULE status\_0100 OUTPUT.\\n SET PF-STATUS 'SCREEN\_100'.\\n SET TITLEBAR 'TIT\_100'.\\n screen\_handler=>create\_screen( ).\\nENDMODULE. "status\_0100 OUTPUT\\n\\n\\n\\nMODULE cancel INPUT.\\n LEAVE PROGRAM.\\nENDMODULE. "cancel INPUT\\n abenabap.html abenabap\_reference.html abenabap\_screens.html abenabap\_dynpros.html abenabap\_dynpro\_elements.html abenabap\_dynpros\_screen.html abenscreen\_elements\_abexas.html