---
title: "ABENEML_PRIVILEGED_ABEXA"
description: |
  ABENEML_PRIVILEGED_ABEXA - Standard ABAP language reference documentation
library: "standard"
libraryName: "Standard ABAP"
category: "general"
type: "abap-reference"
sourceUrl: "https://help.sap.com/doc/abapdocu_latest_index_htm/latest/en-US/ABENEML_PRIVILEGED_ABEXA.htm"
abapFile: "ABENEML_PRIVILEGED_ABEXA.html"
keywords: ["select", "update", "delete", "loop", "do", "if", "case", "method", "class", "data", "ABENEML", "PRIVILEGED", "ABEXA"]
---

This example demonstrates ABAP EML `MODIFY` statements executing an [action](ABENRAP_ACTION_GLOSRY.html) with and without the addition `PRIVILEGED` using a managed [RAP BO](ABENRAP_BO_GLOSRY.html).

**Data model**

The CDS data model consists of the root entity `DEMO_MANAGED_PRIVILEGED`.

**Behavior definition**

The [RAP behavior definition](ABENCDS_BEHAVIOR_DEFINITION_GLOSRY.html)\\ `DEMO_MANAGED_PRIVILEGED` is defined in [RAP BDL](ABENCDS_BDL_GLOSRY.html) as follows:

**Behavior implementation**

For the above RAP behavior definition, there is an [ABAP behavior pool (ABP)](ABENBEHAVIOR_POOL_GLOSRY.html) available. The global class of the behavior pool is `BP_DEMO_MANAGED_PRIVILEGED`. This global class implements the local handler class `LHC_DEMO_MANAGED_PRIVILEGED`. The actual implementation takes place in the `BP_DEMO_MANAGED_PRIVILEGED====CCIMP`. The following method is relevant for the example:

The source code above uses [EML](ABENEML_GLOSRY.html) to access the RAP business object from an ABAP class. There are two ABAP EML modify requests:

-   `check_privileged`
-   First, the privileged mode is checked. The privileged mode can be queried by the [RAP BO provider](ABENRAP_BO_PROVIDER_GLOSRY.html) using the method `GET_CURRENT_CONTEXT` of the class `CL_ABAP_BEHV_AUX`. If the privileged mode is active, a flag is set appropriately. For demonstration purposes in this implementation, the flag for the privileged mode is stored in a variable of the global class of the behavior pool so that the [RAP BO consumer](ABENRAP_BO_CONSUMER_GLOSRY.html) (another class or program) can access it. As a next step, an authority check for demonstrating the privileged mode is carried out using the statement [`AUTHORITY-CHECK OBJECT`](ABAPAUTHORITY-CHECK.html). Like the flag for the privileged mode, the value of `sy-subrc` is stored in a variable in the global class. After the check, a loop is run across the imported key fields. In this implementation, only the RAP response parameters are manually filled (`failed` and `reported`). In case the authorization is not granted, both `failed` and `reported` are filled. In the other case, only the `reported` structure is filled with a success message.

1.  ABAP EML modify request without using the addition `PRIVILEGED`
2.  The action `check_privileged` is executed based on two key fields. The output includes the `sy-subrc` value that is set when calling the method and carrying out the authority check. Here, it shows the value *12* indicating that the authorization has not been granted. It also shows a phrase indicating whether the privileged mode is active or not based on a flag that has been set during the method call. For the modify request, the response parameters for `failed` and `reported` are filled and are output too. In this case, they include all instances for which the authorization has not been granted and a failure message.
3.  ABAP EML modify request with using the addition `PRIVILEGED`
4.  Same as above, the action `check_privileged` is executed based on two key fields. The output demonstrates the effect of the addition `PRIVILEGED` that circumvents authority checks. Here, the `sy-subrc` value is *0* indicating that the authorization has been granted. For this request, only the response parameter for `reported` is filled with a success message.

@AccessControl.authorizationCheck: #NOT\_REQUIRED\\ndefine root view entity DEMO\_MANAGED\_PRIVILEGED\\n as select from demo\_tab\_root\_3\\n \\{\\n key key\_field,\\n field1,\\n field2,\\n field3,\\n field4\\n \\}\\n managed implementation in class bp\_demo\_managed\_privileged unique;\\nstrict ( 2 );\\nextensible;\\nwith privileged mode disabling ac;\\n\\ndefine authorization context ac\\n\\{\\n 'AUTHOBJ1';\\n 'AUTHOBJ2';\\n 'AUTHOBJ3';\\n\\}\\n\\ndefine own authorization context by privileged mode;\\n\\ndefine behavior for DEMO\_MANAGED\_PRIVILEGED\\npersistent table demo\_tab\_root\_3\\nlock master\\nauthorization master ( global )\\nextensible\\n\\{\\n create;\\n update;\\n delete;\\n action check\_privileged;\\n action forwarding\_privileged;\\n action forwarding\_privileged\_aux;\\n field ( readonly : update ) key\_field;\\n\\} \* Public class definition \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_eml\_privileged DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n METHODS: \\n constructor, \\n fill\_dbtab. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_eml\_privileged IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n out->begin\_section( \`Demo: ABAP EML Statements with \` && \\n \`and without the Addition PRIVILEGED\` \\n )->write\_doc( \`**ABAP EML MODIFY Statement without PRIVILEGED**\` \\n )->begin\_code( \`priv1\` ). \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_privileged \\n EXECUTE check\_privileged \\n FROM VALUE #( ( key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( key\_field = 2 ) ) \\n FAILED FINAL(fail\_no\_priv) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported\_no\_priv). \\n out->end\_code( \`priv1\` \\n )->write\_doc( |sy-subrc after carrying out the authority| && \\n | check: \\{ bp\_demo\_managed\_privileged=>subrc \\}.| ). \\n\\ \\n IF bp\_demo\_managed\_privileged=>priv\_flag IS INITIAL. \\n out->write\_html( \`\` && \\n \`We are not in privileged mode.\` ). \\n ELSE. \\n out->write\_html( \`\` && \\n \`We are in privileged mode.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n out->write( fail\_no\_priv \\n )->write( reported\_no\_priv \\n )->line( \\n )->write\_doc( \`**ABAP EML MODIFY Statement with PRIVILEGED**\` \\n )->begin\_code( \`priv2\` ). \\n MODIFY ENTITY PRIVILEGED demo\_managed\_privileged \\n EXECUTE check\_privileged \\n FROM VALUE #( ( key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( key\_field = 2 ) ) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed\_with\_priv) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported\_with\_priv). \\n out->end\_code( \`priv2\` \\n )->write\_doc( |sy-subrc after carrying out the authority| && \\n | check: \\{ bp\_demo\_managed\_privileged=>subrc \\}.| ). \\n\\ \\n IF bp\_demo\_managed\_privileged=>priv\_flag IS INITIAL. \\n out->write\_html( \`\` && \\n \`We are not in privileged mode.\` ). \\n ELSE. \\n out->write\_html( \`\` && \\n \`We are in privileged mode.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n out->write( reported\_with\_priv ). \\n\\ \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD fill\_dbtab. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_root\_3. \\n MODIFY demo\_tab\_root\_3 FROM TABLE @( VALUE #( \\n ( key\_field = 1 \\n field1 = 'a' \\n field2 = 'b' \\n field3 = 1 \\n field4 = 2 ) \\n ( key\_field = 2 \\n field1 = 'c' \\n field2 = 'd' \\n field3 = 3 \\n field4 = 4 ) ) ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD constructor. \\n super->constructor( ). \\n fill\_dbtab( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. \* Public class definition \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_eml\_privileged DEFINITION \\n INHERITING FROM cl\_demo\_classrun \\n PUBLIC \\n CREATE PUBLIC. \\n PUBLIC SECTION. \\n METHODS main REDEFINITION. \\n METHODS: \\n constructor, \\n fill\_dbtab. \\nENDCLASS. \\n\\ \\n\* Public class implementation \\nCLASS cl\_demo\_rap\_eml\_privileged IMPLEMENTATION. \\n METHOD main. \\n\\ \\n out->begin\_section( \`Demo: ABAP EML Statements with \` && \\n \`and without the Addition PRIVILEGED\` \\n )->write\_doc( \`**ABAP EML MODIFY Statement without PRIVILEGED**\` \\n )->begin\_code( \`priv1\` ). \\n MODIFY ENTITY demo\_managed\_privileged \\n EXECUTE check\_privileged \\n FROM VALUE #( ( key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( key\_field = 2 ) ) \\n FAILED FINAL(fail\_no\_priv) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported\_no\_priv). \\n out->end\_code( \`priv1\` \\n )->write\_doc( |sy-subrc after carrying out the authority| && \\n | check: \\{ bp\_demo\_managed\_privileged=>subrc \\}.| ). \\n\\ \\n IF bp\_demo\_managed\_privileged=>priv\_flag IS INITIAL. \\n out->write\_html( \`\` && \\n \`We are not in privileged mode.\` ). \\n ELSE. \\n out->write\_html( \`\` && \\n \`We are in privileged mode.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n out->write( fail\_no\_priv \\n )->write( reported\_no\_priv \\n )->line( \\n )->write\_doc( \`**ABAP EML MODIFY Statement with PRIVILEGED**\` \\n )->begin\_code( \`priv2\` ). \\n MODIFY ENTITY PRIVILEGED demo\_managed\_privileged \\n EXECUTE check\_privileged \\n FROM VALUE #( ( key\_field = 1 ) \\n ( key\_field = 2 ) ) \\n FAILED FINAL(failed\_with\_priv) \\n REPORTED FINAL(reported\_with\_priv). \\n out->end\_code( \`priv2\` \\n )->write\_doc( |sy-subrc after carrying out the authority| && \\n | check: \\{ bp\_demo\_managed\_privileged=>subrc \\}.| ). \\n\\ \\n IF bp\_demo\_managed\_privileged=>priv\_flag IS INITIAL. \\n out->write\_html( \`\` && \\n \`We are not in privileged mode.\` ). \\n ELSE. \\n out->write\_html( \`\` && \\n \`We are in privileged mode.\` ). \\n ENDIF. \\n\\ \\n out->write( reported\_with\_priv ). \\n\\ \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD fill\_dbtab. \\n DELETE FROM demo\_tab\_root\_3. \\n MODIFY demo\_tab\_root\_3 FROM TABLE @( VALUE #( \\n ( key\_field = 1 \\n field1 = 'a' \\n field2 = 'b' \\n field3 = 1 \\n field4 = 2 ) \\n ( key\_field = 2 \\n field1 = 'c' \\n field2 = 'd' \\n field3 = 3 \\n field4 = 4 ) ) ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\n METHOD constructor. \\n super->constructor( ). \\n fill\_dbtab( ). \\n ENDMETHOD. \\nENDCLASS. abenabap.html abenabap\_rap.html abenabap\_for\_rap\_bos.html abenabap\_consume\_rap\_bos.html abeneml.html abapcommon\_eml\_elements.html abapeml\_privileged.html